1.2  Example: 

I have played for the Three-Star club. 
I played for the Three-Star club in 2014. 
[Experience] 

I have scored several goals for the Three-Star club. 
I scored four goals for the Three-Star club last year.  
[Achievement]  
 

1.2 LISTING EXPERIENCES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

List out the experiences and achievements of the people below. 

1. She has had an amazingly successful film career............. 

Ans: 
She has portrayed different characters. 
She has played movies of different genres. 
She turned out to be the best female actor in 2018.        
She has been coupled with many superstars in her different movies.  


2. The company has had one of the worst years in its history........ 

Ans: 
The company has failed to supply satisfactory goods or products. 
The workers have gone on strike. 
The CEO has resigned. 
The company has been blacklisted by the Government for its adulterated goods.

3. The escaped prisoner has an impressive criminal record...........  

Ans: 
He has robbed several banks. 
He planted a bomb at airport two years ago. 
He has been involved in human trafficking. 
He has been put on prison several times before.

4. The Colonel has had a remarkably adventurous life........  

Ans:
 He has been awarded with many medals. 
 He has fought many battles. 
 He worked in UN battle force two years ago. 

 5. Jules' career as an anthropologist has taken him all over the world and into the most extra ordinary situations............ 

Ans: 
He has participated in many workshops. 
He has published many books.  

 

1.3 HAVE YOU EVER..... ? 

Make questions about the context below beginning with 'Have you ever......?'. 

 
1.They fined me for a parking offence last week. 

Ans:
Have you ever been fined for a parking offence? 

 
2.They printed my picture in the newspaper once.  

Ans:
Have you ever had your picture printed in the newspaper. 

 
3.Somebody punched me on the nose this morning. 

Ans:
Have you ever been punched on the nose? 


4.The customs men searched my luggage last time I came from abroad. 

Ans:
Have you ever had your luggage searched?  

 
5.Somebody broke into my house two weeks ago. 

Ans:
Have you ever had your house broken into? 

 
1.5 FAMILIAR AND UNFAMILIAR EXPERIENCES  

STRUCTURES:  

1. Sub + be used to + V-ing  

I am used to eating spicy food. 
I am not used to being castigated by a teacher.  


2. Sub + be used to + noun/phrase  

I am used to spicy food. 
I am not used to nasty comments.  


Continue the remarks below to clarify the familiar and unfamiliar experiences: 

1. She's just left her village and gone to work in the big city. 

Ans: 
She's used to living in the village. 
She is not used to working in the city.  

 
2. He's just retired.  

Ans: 
He's used to working in his office. 
He's not used to staying idle at home. 


3. They had just had a baby. 

Ans:
They are used to eating out.  
They are not used to baby siting. 

 

1.6 NEW EXPERIENCES  

STRUCTURES:  

A. This is the first time + sub + has/have + ever + V3 

-> This is the first time I have ever eaten Korean food.  

 

B. Sub + has/have + never + V5.......... before 

-> I have never proposed a girl before. 

 

C. Sub + is/am/are + not used to + V-ing  

-> She is used to driving.  

 

Continue the remarks below in three different ways as shown in the examples:  

1. My feet are killing me.  

Ans: 
This is the first time I have ever played football.  
I am not used to trekking.  
I have never put on high heels before. 

  
2. God, this is embarrassing!........ 

Ans: 
This is the first time I have ever smoked in the public.  
I have never been proposed before.  
I'm not used to arguing with teachers.  

 
3. Do you think you could slow down a little?  

Ans: 
This is the first time I have ever ridden the bike.  
I have never travelled by night bus before.  
I am not used to travelling at high speed.  

 

1.8  APPLYING FOR A JOB  

Q. Write a letter applying for the post of an accountant at Global IME Bank Ltd., Old Baneshwor, Kathmandu.  

 

Bharatpur-10 
Lanku 
Chitwan 

1st September 2020 

 
The Human Resource Manager,  
Global IME Bank Ltd. 
Old Baneshwor, Kathmandu. 

 
Dear Madam/Sir,  

I am writing to apply for the post of an accountant advertised by your Head Office in the daily, 'The Himalayan Times' dated 20 August 2020. Please find a copy of my curriculum vitae enclosed herewith.  

I have passed Bachelor's in Business Administration from Kathmandu University. Ever since I had this degree, I have been working at supreme Finance Limited as a junior accountant. So far, I have found my work interesting and enjoyable. I have taken several trainings on accounting and record-keeping. Moreover, I choose the major marketing and accountancy in my last semester. Likewise, I did internship at Nabil bank Limited for three months in 2018. Thus, I believe that my work experiences are relevant to the post I am applying for. You will find me a competitive candidate with a self-starter. 

I look forward to hearing from you. If you grant me an opportunity, I will leave no stones unturned to bring some desirable changes in the execution  of the task assigned to me.  

 
Yours faithfully, 

…..................... 

Rajesh Hamal 

