COMPARISON

This unit deals with comparison and evaluation. It deals with language for talking about large and differences, making précised comparison and comparison involving different times. 

12.1 LARGE AND SMALL DIFFERENCES 

From the information in the reports, make other Comparisions between the two tours. Talk about: 

 1. The coaches. How old? Clean? 

Ans. 
The coaches on the vista tours are far more efficient and experienced than those on paradise tours, but they are cleaner. 

  2. The couriers. Efficient? Spanish? Experience? Friendly? 

Ans. 
The couriers on paradise holidays are far more efficient and experienced than the couriers on vista fours. Or, 

The couriers on the vista tours are lot more friendly than couriers on paradise holiday. Or, 

The couriers on paradise holidays is not as friendly as the couriers in vista tours. 

3. The hotel. Comfort? Near to the beach? 

Ans. 
The hotel on paradise holiday is far more comfortable than vista tours 

The hotel on vista tours are more nearer to the beach than the hotel on paradise holiday. 

4. The food. Quality? Quantity? 

Ans. 
The quality of food on paradise holiday is considerably higher than the food  on vista tours. Or, 

The quantity of food on paradise holidays is not as high as vista tours. 

5. The excursions. Cost? Choice? 

Ans.  
The excursion on vista tours are more cheaper but the excursion on paradise holiday have much more choice. 

6. The tours. Well organised? Good? Good value for money? 

Ans. 
The tours on paradise holidays are much better and far more organized and they have much better value for money. 

 
12.2 SIMILARITIES AND DIFFERENCES 

Discuss the ways in which your partner are similar and different. 

a. I am much taller than my friend. 

b. My friend is considerably paler than I am. 

c. He is better dressed than me. 

d. He is far more skilled in painting. 



12.3 COMPARING PRICES 

Formula 

Sub + comparative + than + obj. 
A is as +adj+ as +B. 
B is not + as +adj + as +A. 

 
Compare the prices of the things: 

1.Tinned peas: 25p               frozen pes:48p 

2.Cotton sheets: 14£             silk sheets:£150 

3.Olive oil: £2                  corn oil: 99p 

4.Leather glove: £8              woollen gloves: £2.75 

5.Colour TV : £310               black-and white TV: £60 

  

1.Tinned peas are almost half as expensive as the price of frozen peas. 

2.Silk sheets cost about 11 times as much as cotton sheets. 

3.Corn oils costs about twice as much as corn oil is. 

4.Olive oil is about twice as expensive as corn oil. 

5.Wollen gloves are about a third the price of leather gloves. 

6.Black and white tv is about five times as expensive as colour tv. 

 

12.4 MEASURING OTHER DIFFERENCES  

Write the other nouns in the table 

Expensive – price 

Deep – depth 

High/tall - hight 

Wide – width 

Thick -  thickness 

Long -  length 

Heavy – weight 

Fast – speed 


Compare the things in as many different ways as you can. 

The man in the middle is nearly as heavy as the man on his left. 

Car A runs nearly three times the speed of car C 

The lake is nearly three times as deep as the west lake 

A is nearly seven times the width of C 



12.6 COMPARISONS WITH DIFFERENT TENSES 

Now change these sentences below into comparative sentences using: a) than b) as….as 

1. The exam is not usually very difficult, but this year it was quite tough. 

a) The exam was tougher this year than it usually is. 

b) This year the exam wasn’t as easy as it usually is. 

2. I had imagined my landlady would be in her fifties, but she turned out to be thirty. 

a) My landlady is younger than I had imagined her to be. 

b) My landlady isn’t as old as I have imagined her to be. 

3. His parents would like him to work hard, but he doesn’t. 

a) His parents would like him to work harder than he does. 

b) He doesn’t work as hard as his parents would like him to do. 

4. The washing machine makes a lot of noise, although it used to be fairly quiet. 

a) The washing machine is nosier than it used to be. 

b) The washing machine isn’t as quiet as it used to be. 

5. You said I would enjoy the film, but in fact I didn’t like it much 

a) I enjoy the film less than you said I would do. 

b) I didn’t enjoy the film as much as you said I would do. 

6. I had hoped to do quite a lot of work today, but I have only managed to do a little. 

a) I have done less work today than I had hoped to do. 

b) I haven’t done as much work today as I have hoped to do. 

7. They could have helped me a lot, but in fact they hardly helped me at all. 

a) They helped me far less than they could have done. 

b) They didn’t help me as much as they could have done. 

8.I hadn’t expected her to be very angry, but in fact she was absolutely furious. 

a) She was much more furious than I had expected her to be. 

b) She wasn’t as quiet as I had expected her to be. 

9. Fifty people had been invited, but eighty came. 

a) Far more people came than we had invited. 

b) People didn’t come as few as we had invited. 
    
