3.1   THE PAST PERFECT TENSE  

Active : Sub + had + V3 

Passive : Sub + had been + V3 

 

3.2   PREVIOUS EVENTS  

Look at the example below and make similar sentences.  

Example: 

A: Her husband was horrified when she came back from the hairdresser's. 
B: Why? What had happened? What had they done? 
C: Well, they'd cut her hair really short, and they'd dyed it a kind of purple colour. 

 

1. When I saw him two years later, I could hardly recognise him. 

Ans: 
A: When I saw him two years later, I could hardly recognise him. 

B: Why? What had happened? 

C: He had put on so much weight and he had rot tattoos all over his body. 

 

2. They sent both men to prison for 20 years.  

Ans: 
A: They sent both men to prison for 20 years. 

B: Why? What had they done? 

C: They had looted a bank and they had murdered the manager.  

 

3. The fireman received a medal for bravery. 

Ans:
A: The fireman received a medal for bravery.    

B: Why? What had happened? 

 C:  Well, he had extinguished a great blaze and he has rescued many children. 

 

 
3.3   PREVIOUS ACTIVITIES AND ACTIONS  

What had you think of following people had been doing or had done? 

 1. Eventually, Richard found a job that suited him. 

Ans: 
He had been hunting for jobs. 

He had taken several job trainings.  

 

2. When the Johnson's eventually got away on holiday, they felt they really deserved it.  

Ans: 
They had been working by day and night.  

They had saved up a good sum of money.  

 

3. By the time the climbers reached the top of the mountain, they were exhausted.  

Ans: 
They had been climbing non-stop for four hours.  

They had used up their oxygen. 

 

4. It was hardly surprising that Anthony fainted.  

Ans:
He had been working in the sun. 

 He had not had his health checked.  

 

5. Vivienne sighed with relief.  

Ans: 
She had been preparing for her term paper.  

She had not had a sound sleep for many days.  

 

3.5   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: RELATIVE CLAUSES 

 
1. Who: people- subjective case 

2. Whose: people- possessive case 

3. Whom: people- objective case 

4. Which: animals/non-living/place 

5. That: animals/non-living/people [only in defining relative clause] 

6. When: time  

7. Where: place  

 

Example: 

My brother is a doctor.  

Q. My brother lives in London. 

-  My brother, who lives in London is a doctor.  

 

Combine the following pairs of sentences using a non-defining relative clauses: 

1. Phil was an excellent driver.  

   Phil's forehead was covered in sweat.  

Ans: 
Phil, who was an excellent driver, kept his foot pressed hard down on the accelerator.  

Phil, whose forehead was covered in sweat was an excellent driver. 

 

2. Julia hadn't wanted to come in the first place. 

   The Admiral had entrusted the papers to Julia. 

Ans: 
Julia, to whom the Admiral had entrusted the papers, had started to cry.  

Julia, who hadn't wanted to come in the first place, had started to cry.   

 

3. Alex had closed his eyes. 

   It had been Alex's idea to come. 

   The success of the whole mission depended on Alex.  

Ans: 
Alex, who had closed his eyes, was grimly fingering his gun. 

Alex, whose idea it had been to come, was grimly fingering his gun. 

Alex, on whom the success of whole mission depended, was grimly fingering his gun.  

 

4. Alex had just taken the gun out of his pocket.  

   Alex never went anywhere without his gun. 

Ans: 
Alex was grimly fingering his gun, which he had just taken out of his pocket. 

Alex was grimly fingering his gun, which he never went anywhere without. 

 

5. The dog was sitting facing the back window.  

   The dog loved travelling in fast cars.  

Ans: 
Only the dog, which was sitting facing the back window, seemed unconcerned.  

Only the dog, which loved travelling in fast car, seemed unconcerned. 

 

6. The truck was gaining on them all the time.  

   They were trying so desperately to escape from the truck. 

   A light machine gun was clearly visible on the truck. 

Ans: 
The truck, which was gaining on them all the time, had a gun mounted a top of it.  

The truck, which they were trying so desperately to escape from, was gaining on them all the time. 

A light machine gun, which was clearly visible on the truck, was  starting to fire the shots.  

