4.2  VERBS AND ADJECTIVES 

Look at the example below and make similar sentences. 

Example: Politics 

A: What do you think of politics? 

B: Oh! I find politics really depressing.  

C: Yes, politics depresses me, too. 

D: Yes, I agree. I get terribly depressed when people talk about politics. 

 

1. World Cup football 

A: What do you think of World Cup football? 

B: Oh! I find it very exciting. 

C: Yes! World Cup football excites me, too.  

D: Yes, I agree. I get very excited when I watch the World Cup football. 

 

2. People who speak several languages 

A: What do you think of people who speak several languages? 

B: Oh! I find them really impressive.  

C: Yes, they impress me, too. 

D: Yes, I agree. I get really impressed when I hear people speaking.  

 

4.4   IF THERE'S ONE THING...... 

Structures: 

A. If there's one thing + sub + it's people who......... 

  -If there's one thing I hate it's people who jump queues.  

 

B. If there's one thing + that + verb + object + it's people who.....  

  -If there's one thing that makes me angry it's people who jump queues.  

 

Rewrite the sentences below using 'If there's one thing......' 

1. People who smoke in restaurants annoy me. 

Ans: 
If there's one thing that annoys me it's people who smoke in restaurants. 

 

2. People who are cruel to animal upset me. 

Ans: 
If there's one thing that upsets me it's people who are cruel to animals. 

 

3. People who break promises make me angry.  

Ans: 
If there's one thing that makes me angry it's people who break promises. 

 

4. I hate people who smoke in restaurants. 

Ans: 
If there's one thing I hate it's people who smoke in restaurants.  

 

5. I detest people who interrupt when I'm speaking.  

Ans: 
If there's one thing I detest it's people who interrupt when I'm speaking. 

 

6. I loathe people who ring me up early in the morning. 

Ans: 
If there's one thing I loathe it's people who ring me up early in the morning.  

 

Look at the example below and make similar sentences: 

Example: 

A: John got drunk again last night. 

B: Huh. If there's one thing that (annoys me/I can't stand) it's people who (can't take  their drink/make an exhibition of themselves). 

 

1. Look. Fred's putting his cigarette out on his dinner plate. 

Ans: 
A: Look. Fred's putting his cigarette out on his dinner plate. 

B: Huh. If there's one thing that I can't stand it's people who don't have table manners.  

 

2. Alice lost that book I lent her.  

Ans: 
A: Alice lost that book I lent her. 

B: Huh. If there's one thing that gets on my nerves it's people who are careless. 

 

3. Jim drove into a lamp-post last week. 

Ans:
 A: Jim drove into a lamp-post last week. 

 B: Huh. If there's one thing that infuriates me it's people who drive recklessly. 

 

4. Rhoda still hasn't paid me back that £100 she owes me. 

Ans: 
A: Rhoda still hasn't paid me back that £100 she owes me. 

B: Huh. If there's one thing that I can’t stand it's people who are ungrateful. 

 

5. George has forgotten to feed the cat again. 

Ans: 
A: George has forgotten to feed the cat again. 

B: Huh. If there's one thing that I loathe it's people who are irresponsible.  

 

6. Alma kept me waiting for more than an hour last night.  

Ans: 
A: Alma kept me waiting for more than an hour last night.  

B: Huh. If there's one thing that I object to its people who are unpunctual. 

 

7. Mr. Robinson came in to borrow some sugar again this morning.  

Ans: 
A: Mr. Robinson came in to borrow some sugar again this morning. 

B: Huh. If there's one thing that I hate its people who keep borrowing things.   

 

 

4.5   THE WAY 

Structures: 

A. Sub + verb + the way.... 

   -She smiles all the time. 

   -I like the way she smiles all the time.  

 

B. What + sub + verb + about + object + is the way...... 

   -He sings beautifully.  

   -What I like about him is the way he sings. 

 

   One thing 
C. The thing + sub + verb + about + object + is the way 
   Only thing 

   -She speaks very politely over the phone.  

   -One thing I like about her is the way she speaks over the phone. 

 

4.5   Rewrite the sentences below using 'the way' structure: 

1. They never bother to learn the local language.  

Ans: I don't like the way they never bother to learn local languages. 

 

2. They spend so much money.  

Ans: What I adore about them is the way they spend so much money. 

 

3. They take up all the seats on buses. 

Ans: One thing I hate about them is the way they take up all the seats on the buses.  

 

4. They take an interest in local customs.  

Ans: I like the way they take an interest in local customs. 

 

5. They complain about everything all the time. 

Ans: What I hate about them is the way they complain about everything all the time. 

 

6. They help to provide employment.  

Ans: One thing I love about them is the way they provide employment. 

 

7. They wear such funny clothes.  

Ans: I don’t like the way they wear such funny clothes. 

 

8. They've always got so much energy. 

Ans:  What I like about them is the way they've always got so much energy.  

 

4.6  REACTIONS  

Develop the given sentence into a paragraph. 

 

1. I was very impressed by that restaurant........ 

Ans: I was very impressed by that restaurant. It was located in a peaceful part of the valley. There were many trees around the restaurant that nestled it. I liked the way they greeted us with a welcome drink. The waiters were very friendly. They kept every nook and corner of the dining hall spotlessly clean. I was amazed to see the interiors of the restaurant. Moreover, the food was delicious and hygienic. The menu contained the cuisines ranging from Indian to Italian. I equally enjoyed the way they played the soft music in the background. But the thing, I liked the most about it was the way they gave us discounts.  

 

 

4.7  JUDGING CHARACTERS  

How would you describe a person who........ 

a. …......gives away lots of money?  - Generous 

b. …......never buys you a drink?  - Stingy/Mean 

c. …......easily loses his temper?  - Ill tempered 

d. …......never loses his temper?  - Calm 

e. …......helps other people?  - Helpful 

f. …......only thinks about himself?  - Selfish 

g. …......jokes about everything?  - Frivolous/Cheerful 

h. …......doesn't joke about anything?  - Serious 

i. …......expects good things to happen?  - Optimistic 

j. …......expects bad thing to happen?  - Pessimistic 

k.…......believes whatever you tell him?  - Credulous/Gullible 

l. …......doubts what you tell him?  - Sceptical/Suspicious 

m. …......worries about what people think?  - Over-sensitive 

n. …......doesn't care what people think?  - Carefree 

o. …......likes going to parties?  - Sociable/extroverted 

p. …......doesn't like going to parties?  - Shy/Reserved 

q.…......lets people down?  - Unreliable 

r. …......doesn't let people down?  - Reliable/Trustworthy 

s. …......has a high opinion of himself?  - Proud/Vain 

t. …......doesn't boast?  - Modest/Humble 

