5.1  HOW LONG...?  

Example:  

A. They played cards. (Activity) 

-How long did they play cards? 

-They played cards for two hours. 

-They played cards until two O'clock.  

 
B. She reached home. (Achievement) 

-How long did it take her to reach home? 

-She reached home in two hours. 

-She reached home by 2 O'clock. 

 
Activity:  

Period- for 

Point- until  

Achievement: 

Period- in 

Point- by  

 
Make questions beginning with how long and answer them using the words given in the brackets: 

1. They talked on the telephone. (20 minutes) 

Ans:
How long did they talk on the telephone? 

They talked on the telephone for 20 minutes.  

 
2. She painted the bathroom ceiling. (six O'clock) 

Ans: 
How long did it take her to paint the bathroom ceiling? 

She painted the bathroom ceiling by six O'clock. 

 
3. We played golf on Sunday. (dusk) 

Ans: 
How long did you play golf on Sunday? 

We played golf until dusk on Sunday. 

 
4. He mowed the lawn. (ten minutes) 

Ans: 
How long did it take him to mow the lawn? 

He mowed the lawn in ten minutes.  

 
5. I wrote all my letters. (lunch time) 

Ans: 
How long did it take you to write all your letters? 

I wrote all my letters by lunch time. 

 
6. We had to change the wheel. (five minutes) 

Ans: 
How long did it take you to change the wheel? 

We changed the wheel in five minutes. 


7. He watched television. (late movie came on) 

Ans: 
How long did he watch television? 

He watched television until late movie came on.  

 
8. I read the whole of War and Peace. (two weeks) 

Ans: 
How long did it take you to read the whole of War and Peace? 

I read the whole of War and Peace in two weeks. 

 
9. She did some piano practice. (bedtime) 

Ans: 
How long did she do some piano practice? 

She did some piano practice until bedtime.  

 
10. She waited at the bus stop. (ages) 

Ans: 
How long did she wait at the bus stop? 

She waited at the bus stop for ages.  

 
5.3  LONGER THAN YOU EXPECTED  

Structure: 

A. Something didn’t happen + for + period of time  

........ the teacher didn't come for ten minutes.  

 
B. Something didn’t happen + till + point of time  

........ the teacher didn't come till 3:40. 

 
C. It was + point/period of time + before something happened 

…..... it was 3:40 before the teacher came. 

 
Complete the sentences below using the words given in brackets: 

1. I wrote to my mother by airmail, but in fact.... (two weeks) 

Ans: 
I wrote to my mother by airmail, but in fact she didn't receive the letter for two weeks. 
It was two weeks before she received the letter. 

 
2. I intended to have an early night but as it happened.... (midnight) 

Ans: 
I intended to have an early night but as it happened I didn’t sleep till midnight.  

It was midnight before I slept.  

 
3. I said he could borrow the record for a few days, but....... (six weeks) 

Ans: 
I said he could borrow the record for a few days, but he didn't return it for six weeks.  

It was six weeks before he returned it.  

 
4. It was supposed to be a short meeting, but ….... (three hours) 

Ans: 
It was supposed to be a short meeting but it didn't get over for three hours.  

It was three hours before it got over.  

 
5. She set us some homework for Monday, but as I was away for the weekend..... (Tuesday) 

Ans: 
She set us some homework for Monday, but as I was away for the weekend I didn't submit the homework till Tuesday.  

It was Tuesday before I submitted it. 

 
6. He was invited to dinner, but, typically...... (after nine O'clock) 

Ans: 
He was invited to dinner, but, typically he didn't turn up till nine O'clock.  

It was nine O'clock before he turned up.  

 

7. The job was supposed to take three weeks, but unfortunately........ (nearly two months) 

Ans: 
The job was supposed to take three weeks, but unfortunately it didn't complete for two months. 

It was two months before it completed.  

 

 5.6   PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE  

Make questions about the following using 'How long....?'. 

1. Paul is a painter. He stared painting is 1970.  

Ans:
How long ago did Paul start painting? 

 

2. He went to Art School in 1973 and left in 1976. 

Ans: 
How long has he been working in the studio?  

 
3. He works in a studio in Amsterdam which he bought just after leaving Art School.  

Ans: 
How long has he been working in the studio? 

 
4. At the moment, he's painting a portrait of the Prime Minister, which he started two months ago . 

Ans:
How long has he been painting the portrait of the Prime Minister? 

 
5. Next week, he's going on a three-months working holiday in Italy. 

Ans: 
How long will he be working in Italy? 

