Summary 

Anton Chekhov is a famous play writer who is known for writing realistic stories.  'About love' is a story which shows love is a feeling that can happen anytime, anywhere and with anyone.  Even social status and other boundaries wouldn't stop it.  The writer mainly talks about three types of love stories of different people and the differences between them. The narrator of this story is Alyohin who has shaped his view towards love from his own love affair.  The story is about violent love, material love and especially platonic love which is seen between Alyohin and Anna. 

Alyohin, after his graduation, had been living as a farmer at Sofyino.  The story begins with Alyohin and his friends having  a leisurely time so they are eating, talking about things. Alyohin then begins to talk about the violent love affair between his two servants Nikanor and Pelageya. According to the Alyohin, Pelageya didn’t want to marry Nikanor but she wanted to live with him.  But, Nikanor couldn’t stay with her before marriage for his own reasons. Alyohin then express his view toward love saying that love is a hindrance and a source of dissatisfaction and irritation. Then, he began his own story, his and Anna's story. 

Alyohin's father had spent a lot for his son's education.  Although Alyohin was a well-educated man, he had to work laboriously in his farm to pay off his debt . Many years before, when he had to go to the town to participate in the court session, one of his friends, Luganovich invited him for dinner. There, he met the young and beautiful Anna Alexeyevna, the wife of Luganovich. He was really attracted towards her and ended up falling in love with her.  Later, he visited her time and again. They spent much time together and both of them were in love with each other. However, they didn’t express their feelings and desires because they were scared that it would ruin both of their lives. 

Even after being married with a well to do person and having his children, Anna ended up having a miserable life. She fell in love with Alyohin which lead her to depression. That is why she had to go for treatment. A great crowd had collected to see Anna when she was leaving for her treatment. When the train started to move, Alyohin ran to her compartment with her basket which she had forgotten and also to say her goodbye.  Their emotional eyes met together. Alyohin embraced her  and they kissed each other expressing their feelings. However, this was the last time they met.  Alyohin then returned to his village with a heavy heart. The platonic love of Alyohin and Anna just remained in their hearts.  

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. The second paragraph of 'About love' is a brief account of a violent love affair between two servants. Is it significant that Alyohin is the source of this anecdote? How does the anecdote contrast with Alyohin's own story? 

Ans. 
In the second paragraph, Alyohin talks about the violent love between his servants Nikonar and Pelagaya. Their love story is a different one. They express their love toward each other but they have their own choices towards marriage due to which they have disagreements.  It is significant that Alyohin is the source of this anecdote. Alyohin is both the narrator and the protagonist of this story. If he had not started the story of his servants, he would not have talked about his love story as well as his views toward love. The entire story revolves around his and Anna's love story. That is why it is significant that Alyohin is the source of this anecdote. 

The two story presents here and totally different from each other. The servants belong to a socially inferior class and they have a usual love story. The story of their servants involve violent. They are also not afraid to express their love towards each other. On the other hand, Alyohin's love story is an unusual story. They belong to a socially superior class. Both the lovers are unable to express their love towards each other. They just have a connection between their hearts.  

  

2. How does an account of the occasion and the setting in which the narrative occurs affect our understanding of Alyohin? 

Ans. 
The story begins with three friends enjoying their free time together and talking about different things. Alyohin in the very beginning, talks about the love story of his servants. The very first part of the story provides an appropriate setting to the story. From their story, Alyohin begins his own story.  

While all of them are relaxing, Alyohin begins to talk about him and Anna. He talks about how he fell in love with Anna who was the wife of his friend and how he met her for the last time. Alyohin has defined love according to his own experience.  He expresses his views towards love through his own story. So, the setting does affect our understanding of Alyohin. 

 

Styles and Rhetorics 

  

1. An atmosphere of inertia is established in the opening paragraph of the story. Cite some specific details which help to create this atmosphere. Is this air of indecisive leisure suggested again at the end of the story? What is the connection between this atmosphere and Alyohin's behaviour with the woman he loves, and the outcome of their relationship? 

Ans. 
In the beginning of the story, it is mentioned that Alyohin along with his two friends have nothing special to do, that is why they are relaxing, waiting for the weather to change, eating breakfast and talking. The same air of indecisive leisure is suggested again at the end of the story. At the end, it is again mentioned that the rain stopped and the sun came out. The two friends came out enjoyed and admired the view which implies that they were actually having a free time. 

The atmosphere also has some connections with Alyohins's behaviour with the woman he loves.  Alyohin has a disturbed love life just like the atmosphere there.  Alyohin fell in love with his friend's wife. He could neither express his love nor run away from his feelings. He could never forget Anna that is why he told his love story whenever he had a chance. He was having a miserable life. 


2. Alyohin is said to rush around like a squirrel in a cage and this judgement is echoed in the final paragraph of the story. What is the significance of this repetition? 

Ans. 
Alyohin had become like a squirrel in a cage. Squirrel is a free animal and does not want to get trapped. Here, Alyohin was trapped in misery. He was trapped by his difficult love life and also his poverty. Although he was a well-educated man who could do all well in his life, he was working like a labour in his farm. He fell in love with Anna but he couldn't express his feelings. He was afraid of both of their reputation, Anna was a married woman. His love would only create problems in her married life. He also thought that he was not capable to make her happy. He scarified his feelings thinking that it would ruin everyone. Due to all these problems, he became like a squirrel trapped in a cage. 

 

Discussion 

  

1. Why do you think Chekhov chose to write about an ordinary man instead of a hero or scholar or actor? Does Chekhov imply Alyohin's assumption that 'celebrated' people lead more fulfilled lives than the rest of us? Do you agree with Alyohin's assumptions? 

Ans.
 Chekhov is a writer who chooses to write realistic story. He wrote this story to tell about the emotions of an ordinary man. He wrote about an ordinary man to tell about an event that can occur in life of any man. It is not true that 'celebrated' people have a more fulfilled life than the rest of us. 'Celebrated' people are also humans first and extraordinary ones later. Such people also have the same emotions like love, hate and anger just like an ordinary man. That is why no one can have a fulfilled because no one is all satisfied with everything they have.  Anna is also wife of a rich person. She had a chance to become an extraordinary person but also she led a difficult life. Alyohin's assumption is wrong as Chekhov went against his thought by writing this story about Alyohin who was not a 'celebrated ' man.

  