Summary

The story "A Child is Born" by Germaine Greer compares the attitude towards pregnancy, childbirth, child bearing and child rearing in Western and Eastern society. The writer also compares the parent-child relationship, child-family relationship and role of children in traditional, agricultural eastern societies with that of children in Western industrialized countries. The writer also shows the psychological differences of the mother in Eastern and Western countries. 

The writer says that there are many ways of managing childbirth in traditional societies. In traditional societies, childbirth is a collective responsibility of the whole family and even the whole community. A pregnant woman is not only looked after by family they are also looked after by the society in traditional and Eastern countries. So, the pregnant woman feels safe and protected which greatly reaches her fear, anxiety and pain of childbirth. A mother gets lot of love, care and moral support from the family and relatives which helps to reduce mental tension and fear. In the traditional and Eastern society, a pregnant women is always given extra care by the family. 

On the other hand, Western societies have a very different approach to pregnancy and child birth. It is because they have very highly qualified medical persons and also have reliable medical equipment unlike in the traditional societies, where childbirth is very risky due to the lack of proper sanitation and facilities. Since, technology is very advanced in the modern societies, women don't have to worry about risking their life during childbirth. Mainly, it is due to the modernization of the medical facilities, presence of highly reliable medical equipment in the modern societies, which makes people worry less about pregnancy and childbirth unlike in the Eastern countries. In the modern societies, woman approaches her pregnancy mechanically like she approaches her examination. It is believed that a pregnant woman is considered lucky if her husband is present with her during child rearing. But in  many traditional societies, a woman goes to her husband's house after her marriage, but she is considered a part of the family only after she gives birth to a child. In the same way, child bearing is also a collective duty of the whole family. In fact, the biological parents don't have to look after their child. This weakens the parent-child relationship but strengthens family-child relationship.    

The writer seems to tell us that keeping in mind the terrible experience that a woman undergoes before, during and after childbirth, that the traditional approach is better than the modern one. But the best way to manage pregnancy and childbirth would be a proper combination of the traditional and the modern way.  

 

UNDERSTANDING AND INTERPRETATION 

1. What differences does the writer show between a traditional society and a modern society in matters of pregnancy, childbirth and childbearing ? 

Ans. 
The writer shows a significant difference between the traditional society and a modern society in the case of pregnancy. In the traditional society a pregnant woman is given extra care than the other members of the family. In the case of the traditional society, childbirth is taken as a collective responsibility of the whole family. Since, a pregnant woman gets extra care, she feels safe and protected which reaches her fear, anxiety and childbirth. In the same way, during the childbearing she gets extra care from the family. Also, if we talk about childrearing, the child gets the love of every other members of the family and hence is more close to the other members of the family than to their own parents. This helps to strengthen the family-child relationship. 

In the case of modern society, things are very much different. A pregnant woman does not get extra care and support from  the family. Also, a pregnant woman does not get the extra emotional support even during childbearing. Sometimes, no members of the family are present during the process of childbearing. The reasons why pregnant woman is not given extra care in the modern society like in traditional is due to the modern equipment. The doctors, nurses and modern medicine are highly trusted and respected due to which pregnancy, childbirth and childbearing is taken as another normal activity. So, due the presence of modern equipment and other facilities modern society have a very different approach to pregnancy, childbirth and childbearing. 

 

2. Why does the writer bring in the examples of the traditional societies to discuss the problems of a modern, especially Western society? 

Ans.
 The writer brings in the examples of the traditional societies to discuss the problems of the modern society due to the vast difference in the way of approach towards pregnancy in the two different societies. As we all know how a pregnant woman is given extra care and love by the family in the traditional society which helps her to overcome the fear and the pain during the pregnancy, which is absent in the modern society.  

The writer seems to tell us that keeping in mind the terrible experience that woman undergoes during pregnancy, that the traditional approach is better than the modern one. Mainly, she brings in the examples of the traditional society to make people realize the pain and all the emotions that a woman goes through during pregnancy. So, the main reason for doing so is to make people understand the emotions of a woman during pregnancy, childbirth and childbearing so she receives that extra care and support like in the traditional societies. 

 

STYLE AND RHETORICS 

 
1. Discuss how the writer uses quotations, comparisons and contrasts to argue her points. What are her points? 

Ans.
The writer uses several quotation like " sucks his mother's breast to signify that the highest duty of a Rajput is to uphold the dignity if his mother's milk" , "what would you like to eat?" To argue her points. From the quotations above we can understand that she clearly tries to mention about the traditional approach towards pregnancy. From the quotations mentioned above, the writer not only tries to explain us about the love and the care a woman gets during pregnancy but also the strong parent-child relationship unlike in the modern society.  

The writer compares the approach towards pregnancy in the traditional and the modern society along with the facilities available. Since the traditional society isn’t developed as compared to the modern society in terms of technology, the pregnant woman is given extra priority to make her feel safe and protected. 

We can say that writer's point is the traditional approach is better than the modern mechanical approach to childbirth. But, the best way to manage pregnancy and childbirth would be a proper combination of the traditional and the modern society. 

