Summary 

'A story' is written by Dylan Thomas who narrates the story from a small's boy perspective. It is not actually a story as there is no real beginning or end and there's very little in the middle. 'A story' is about an annual day outing of his uncle and uncle's friends on charabanc, to Porthcawl which was never successful. 

The writer, who is a small boy, used to spend time on his uncle's house. He depicts characters using similes and metaphors. His uncle is so big that he compares his uncle to an old buffalo and he doesn't think of her aunt as anything but the wife of his uncle partly because she was too small compared to uncle. His uncle braces were straining like hawsers and his breathing is like a brass band. The speaker explains his uncle waistcoats as meadows when littered. Every Saturday night at half past ten, his uncle would lift her up to the chair so she could hit him with whatever handy but it was always a china dog.  

One evening, in uncle's shop, the speaker heard uncle and his friends Mr. Benjamin Franklyn, Mr. Weazley, Noah Bowen and Will Sentry planning annual outing trip. According to the speaker, they smelt like cheese and turps, twisted tobacco and sweet biscuits and snuff and waistcoat all being together in a drawer. Mr Benjamin Franklyn was a treasurer and complained that Will Sentry would follow him everywhere except his bed as he didn't trust him as previous year treasurer, Bob the Fiddle drank alone from the outing funds.  

The Uncle's wife was not happy with uncle outing's plan and threatens to go to her mother's house. But still he didn't change his plans. So uncle's wife went to her mother's house but left a note to take the eggs from the pantry and to remove his boots before going to bed.   

On the day of outing, everyone gathered but didn't like the idea about bringing the speaker but uncle shut them up and the journey started. While checking the names, they found out old O. Jones was missing and returned back. Old O. Jones, who was waiting was angry but changed his mind after he was offered a bottle of ale. On the way, Mr. Weazley asked to stop the charabanc as he had forgotten to bring his teeth. So, they gave him up a bottle with straw and he was quiet. Mr. Cadwallader claimed that they were twelve minutes away to reach the pub Mountain sheep. The charabanc stopped outside the pub Mountain sheep and everyone entered the pub except the small boy. The small boy was assigned to make sure the charabanc was not stolen but there was no one to steal it except the cows. They resumed their journey after forty five minutes and stopped on various pubs; The Blue Bull, The Dragon, The Star Of Wales, The Twll in the Wall, etc. When they were in Druid's Tap, the policeman suddenly entered the pub and Noah Bowen became cautious. The policeman was friendly and soon they started singing together.  

At the end, they stopped at Hermit's Nest and never reached Porthcawl. It was starting to get dark so they returned home. On the way home, the old O. jones stopped the charabanc near the field. They got out of the bus, formed a circle, drank and sang eating the sausage and mash while the moon flew above them as the small boy slept.  

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. How does the boy, the narrator, look at his uncle and his friends? 

Ans.
A story is written by Dylan Thomas from a small boy's perspective about the time he spent on his uncle's house. He represents his uncle and his friends using similes and metaphors. The narrator compares his uncle to an old buffalo and his friends to smell of different foods all kept together in a drawer.The narrator says that his uncle is so big that when he enters the little house, it looks like an old buffalo squeezed into an airing cupboard. His uncle braces were straining like hawsers and his uncle used to breathe like a brass band. The narrator says that his uncle's waistcoat was like a meadow when littered. When the uncle and his friends gathered together to discuss the outing plan, the narrator says that they smelt like cheese, turps, twist tobacco, sweet biscuits, snuff and waistcoat all being together in a drawer.  

 
2. Write a paragraph to describe the relation between Thomas(the boy's uncle) and his wife.   

Ans. 
The narrator is a small boy who narrates about the time he spent in his uncle and aunt's house. Even though, it was her aunt he only thought of her as uncle's wife partly because she was too small compared to his uncle. Despite the difference in size, there was no difference sense of affection and caring between his uncle, Mr. Thomas  and his wife, Mrs. Sarah.The narrator notices that every Saturday at half past ten, his uncle used to pick his wife to the chair and let her hit him with whatever handy, but it was always china dog. This was the way of apologizing of his uncle to uncle's wife for the mistakes he made past week.Mrs. Sarah, uncle's wife didn't  want her husband to go to outing but the uncle didn't change his plans not because he didn't love his wife but he wanted to change his and his wife monotonous life. Mrs. Sarah was angry so she went to her mother's house but before leaving she left a note telling uncle where the eggs were and to remove his boots before he went to the bed. Even 
though she was  furious, she was worried about her husband. 

  
3. The plan was to go to Porthcawl for the outing. Did they ever reach there? Why? 

Ans.
 No, they never reached Porthcawl as it was not their ultimate ambition. Their only objective was to drink a lot of ale and enjoy the trip. They stopped at various pubs, drank a lot, sang and play games. It was dark  before they realised their plan was to go to Porthcawl. Since it was late,they cancelled it and stopped at the field, drank, ate sausages and mash, sang and danced as the moon flew above them.  

 

STYLE AND RHETORICS 

1. The narrator uses a lot of simile and metaphor in describing the persons in the story. 

Ans.  
The narrator depicts the character by using lot of similes and metaphors. He describes his uncle as an old buffalo and when he entered the little house, it was like an old buffalo squeezed into an airing cupboard. The narrator says his uncle's breathing was like a brass band and his uncle's waistcoat was like a meadow when littered. Also  her aunt was so small, the narrator says that she whisked on padded paws and he was amazed to see her not getting caught on mousetraps  which she set. And when she left the house, she was as quick as flash that the narrator even didn't notice. 

 

DISCUSSION 

1. Did you think that "A Story" is not a story proper, but a jumble of various people? Give reasons for your answer. 

Ans.
 "A story" is written and narrated by Dylan Thomas from a small's boy perspective. The writer also admits that there is no real beginning and end and there is little in the middle. For events to be called a story according to traditional view, it must have rising action, climax and falling action. But it lacks all of that.'A story' is about the day outing of narrator's uncle and his friends to Porthcawl. Though the traditional view does not call this a proper story, modern form of writing considers this a story. Modern society of writing believes that there should be no bound for one's creation. If analysed from the modern standpoint view, we can call this a story. There are various realistic characters whose actions presented in the story bear a close resemblance to life.Therefore, from a traditional point of view, it is a jumble of various people but from modern point of view it is considered as a good story. 

   