Summary

James Joyce's "The Boarding House" is the story where Mrs. Mooney plays the significant role to settle the love affair of her young daughter Polly and Mr. Doran with whom she had an affair and special relationship. The story is about the character sketch of Mrs. Mooney, a strong determined woman and her strategic techniques to settle her daughter's affair with Mr. Doran. 

Mrs. Mooney is married to Mr. Mooney, who used to work for her father. After the death of her father, Mr. Mooney turned to a drunkard and shortly finished almost all the property and fell into heavy debt. After all sorts of problem, Mrs. Mooney decides not to live together any more. She takes her children and the remaining money of the shop and starts a Boarding House in Hardwick Street. 

Many people visit her boarding house, where they talk about horses and sing songs. So, Mrs. Mooney gives Polly housework so that she comes in contact with the young men. Mrs. Mooney's intention is to trap young man for her daughter. When Mrs. Mooney notices something between her daughter and Mr. Doran, she starts to think that he must pay for his enjoyment. The money is not enough, he must marry her daughter. 

She starts to talk about the affair with her daughter but Polly seems uncomfortable with it. But later, she tells every detail of the relationship. And, Mrs. Mooney calls Mr. Doran and tells him to marry to her daughter. But, he knows that Polly is not educated and people talk badly about her drunkard father. Also, he knows that the society will not accept his deeds and he also knows that if he refuses, he will lose his job. As said earlier, Mrs. Mooney uses her strategic techniques to convince him. She sets him in a trap by saying that she doesn't want to sell her daughter's virtues. 

At last, Mrs. Mooney calls Mr. Doran to her house. She uses strong reasons to convince him. She starts to pressurize and threaten him. She also reminds him about all those happy moments he had spent with her daughter Polly. Finally, after her strategies Mr. Doran agrees to marry her daughter Polly. 

 

DISCUSSION 

1. In paragraph 5, the reader must draw on a set of inferences of such phrases as the following: 

"no one complicity", "her mother's persistent silence could not be misunderstood" , "the affair", "a little strange" , "the young man was evidently perturbed" , "the right moment" , "moral problems as a cleaver deals with meat" 

What information in the first four paragraphs can be drawn on by the reader in order to interpret these phrases? How much does the text depend on the reader's model of competence here? What phrases lack interpretive information and act to pique the reader's interest in forthcoming events? 

Ans.
 From the first four paragraphs we can interpret the information that Mrs. Mooney was a very bold, imposing and a determined woman. From the story itself we get to know how she used her strategy to convince Mr. Doran to marry her daughter. Her intention to make Polly do the housework was to let her come in contact with the young men. When she discovered about "the affair" between her and Mr. Doran she knew exactly what she had to do. Since Mr. Doran was thirty five  and her daughter was just nineteen which was "a little strange" so she waited for the "right moment" to discuss about the affair her daughter had with Mr. Doran. The phrase "the young man was evidently perturbed" gives us the idea how Mrs. Mooney threatened and convinced Mr. Doran later in the story.  
The phrases "the right moment" , "her mother's persistent silence could not be misunderstood" don't give the readers complete idea of the forthcoming event and hence, lack interpretive information.  

      