Summary 

Marsha Traugot has worked as a lecturer in communication and has actively participated for children's protective services of the Massachusetts Society for a prevention of cruelty to children, from 1997 to 1979.  

In the essay 'The Children Who Wait' , the writer describes the new trend of adoption. The journey from how the waiting children, who were labelled "cannot be adopted", finally got acceptance, is highlighted in this essay. 

The writer begins the essay with the description of a five and a half year child,  Tammy who has finally been freed for adoption. She suffers from alcoholic syndrome, which could stop her growth at any time. Her social workers have put an article on the newspaper describing about her personality, background and conditions. Then the article states about the ideal family which could be black or biracial with an older sibling. Had it been on 1978, Tammy would have been sent to a foster care, as back then couples only adopted healthy infants. 

But in the last two decades there has been a gradual change in adoption. Various civil right movements, birth controls, changing more and social science had made a lot of impact in setting the new trend. Women's movement helped legalise abortion. Due to this, unwed women faced less social stigma and themselves cared and raised their child. However, this caused the scarcity of children. Later, newspaper articles revelled about black market doctors selling the child of desperate teenage girls to equally desperate parents who are unable to bear a child.  This drew the attention towards the waiting child. Also the children in foster homes could not receive proper care which would have adverse effect in their health and mental wellbeing, causing consequences in their adulthood. There emerged a fear of passing this to generations.  

The actual change in the system came when the cost of keeping one child was mounted from  $3,600 to $24,000. The system then realised storing children in foster home was cruel and expensive.  

The trend and the culture changed. The social worker evaluated the child's personality, conditions and background before finding them a family. Workshops were held by the specialists for the placement social workers and their supervisors.  

The agency workers would match the child and parents according to their list, if not found the appropriate parent, they would pass on the descriptions to other agencies. If still not found, they would then give an advertisement on the newspaper and televisions to find an appropriate family.  

Hence, the trend of adoption has changed due to many social movements. Now, no child is labelled unwanted and Tammy would find her family soon. 

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. According to Traugot, what changes are transforming the American adoption scene? What factors are responsible for the changes.  

Ans.
 Only healthy, white infants were adopted by the middle class or the upper class families. Black, diseased and handicaps were labelled as unwanted and considered as unwanted goods.  

Gradually, the trend changed. Civil right movements, birth controls, changing more and social science researcher had brought a lot of positive impact. 

Due to women's movement, unwed mothers faced less social stigma, kept and raised their children. There had been a scarcity for healthy infants. Increase of expenses for keeping a child in  foster care mounted from $3600 to $24000. This brought an actual change in the system as everyone thought storing children in foster houses was expensive and cruel.  

 

Style and Rhetorics   

1. What does Traugot's essay gain from the fact that she begins it with an example? Where else in her account does she use examples? What is the effect of her return to her original example in the last paragraph? 

Ans. 
She begins her essay drawing attention towards a five and half year old girl Tammy. Tammy suffers from alcohol syndrome which may stop her growth at any time. The social workers were searching for Tammy but had it been twenty years back, she would have been labelled unwanted as she was black and a handicap.  

Similarly, she gives another example of a boy with the history of disrupted placements, fighting and poor school performance. The third example includes a eleven year boy suffering  from down syndrome and a hearing disability. 

If all of these children were placed for adoption, none would have got a family as they were all handicaps, had disrupted history and lack normal functioning. But now the scenario has changed. And their demands has increased. Now even these children can get a family and start a happy life.  

 

Discussion 

1. Write a paragraph in which on the basis of new trends in adoption that Traugot outlines, you express an opinion about who benefits the most : the agencies, the adoptive parents or the children.   

Ans.
I personally think that it’s the children who benefit a lot. If deprived of love and acceptance, they would always have a scared childhood which would have an adverse effect upon their future.  

Now that they get a new family, they feel accepted, which will build up their confidence and help them to be a better person. They will get their right of education followed by every other child rights. This will make them more responsible. The care, the nurture and the love will help them boost their self-esteem. This would make them realise their worth, filling happiness in their lives.  

Therefore, i thinks it's the children who benefit a lot after adoption. 

      