Summary 

"I have a dream" is a historic and unforgettable speech delivered by Martin Luther King, the clergyman and civil right campaigner to the massive gathering of black and white American citizens who were participating in a march from the Washington Monument to the Lincoln Memorial and the millions of live telecast viewers. 

Martin Luther King is legendary civil right activist of USA, who specially fought for the rights of Negro citizens who were made slaves, tortured and deprived of their freedom. In this speech, he talks about the Emancipation Proclamation 1862-63, according to which, all the citizens black or white will have equal right justice and opportunity to prosper for their happiness. He also quoted the constitution of America ,1787, and its declaration of equal civil rights (unalienable right of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness) as a promissory notes which becomes bad check today having insufficient balance. He makes the analogy of bad check with promise to their rights as time and again, they are rejected and forced to deprive of equal civil rights by different level of government authorities. He talks about segregation of Negros in different field, injustice and unequal treatment in various level of governing authorities of America.  

Most importantly, he presented his dream as a dream of America. He dreams that America will rise up but for that to happen, every American citizens - black or white must have equal rights, justice, liberty and pursuit of happiness cooperating each other. He demands the government authority to convert bad check into good ones by honouring the promissory note, which was issued centuries ago (Emancipation proclamation 1862-1863). He also believes it is high time to address issues of injustice, inequality and humiliation endured by black people of America, unless the non-violent resistance will continue, he warned. 

-There will be neither rest nor tranquillity in America until the Negro is granted his citizenship rights                                                                 

Martin Luther King was an eloquent speaker, and had ability to impress the mass by his oratory skills. Even the white people supported his movement and took part in the demonstration enthusiastically. He is also a bona fide patriotic citizens of America. He wished to make America great with freedom and justice to all citizens of America. 

 

Major Historical Events 

-The Constitution of America, 1787 

-Emancipation Proclamation, 1862-63 

-Martin Luther King's speech, 28th August, 1963 

 

Understanding and Interpretation  

1. What is the apparent purpose of the speech? 

Ans. 
The apparent purpose of the speech by Martin Luther King is to get black people their unalienable right of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness. He wanted justice for unequal treatment and racism based on the colour of skin. Although, the constitution of America promised equal civil rights, they have been deprived of basic civil rights and are victims of racial injustice and segregation. Therefore, he demands the justice for black citizens of USA and equal rights, liberty and pursuit of happiness. He presents his dream as a dream of America. He believes that America will rise up only if every American citizen - black or white have equal right, justice and pursuit of happiness cooperating each other. 

 
2. What does King mean by the "marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community"? Does this contradict King's nonviolent philosophy? 

Ans.
 Martin Luther King delivered an unforgettable speech demanding equal rights and justice for black American citizens. In his speech he mentions that marvelous new militance has engulfed the Negro community. He means that black American citizens have joined the forces and they are ready for non-violent resistance to get their unalienable right of life, liberty and justice for the unequal treatment. King also mentioned that this must not lead to a distrust to white brothers. He claims that the new militancy will have no physical aggression and  will follow the path of Mahatma Gandhi's non-violent resistance.
No, this does not contradicts King's non-violent philosophy as the word militancy is used in a positive sense and it has nothing to do with physical aggressiveness and fighting.   

 
3. What is the historical importance of King's speech? 

Ans. 
The text 'I Have a Dream' is an unforgettable and powerful speech delivered by Martin Luther King, the civil rights campaigner to the massive gathering of American citizens on 28 August,1963. He led the massive gathering of American citizens who were participating in a march from the Washington monument to the Lincoln memorial park, where he delivered this unforgettable speech. In this speech, King clarifies the vision and mission of the Negros asking for their civil rights, justice and liberty. 

In the speech, King reminds people of the time America became independent. At that time, they made the declaration of Independence in which it promised that all the citizens would get unalienable rights like liberty and pursuit of happiness. However, when the constitution was promulgated, the Negros were neglected and deprived of these rights. So, the Negros had to continue to live in the long night of captivity as enslaved by the wild people. After a long period of time, in 1862, Lincoln made the Emancipation Proclamation promising that from 1863, all the Negro slaves would be free. However, the implementation of this important decree was far from practice.The racial discrimination against black people continued to exist and they were also the victims of social segregation. Only the white people were allowed to have lberty, civil rights 
and pursuit of happiness.
 
King addresses the American black citizens and says them to continue their struggle until they establish equality, peace and brotherhood in America. He hopes that one day, the chains of hatred, racial discrimination, injustice and inequalities will be no more. He presents his dream as dream of America. King believes that the new sun will rise with the rays of liberty, equality and peace. He signifies that his dream is to have freedom, justice and equality.King believes that America will need a change to become great and that change must be equality, liberty and justice for every American citizen.King was an eloquent speaker and he knew that his speech could change the life of Negro citizens of USA. The speech made many white people aware too and they supported for equality. His speech changed the future of America.  

 
4. To what extent does King's personal authority lend power to his words? 

Ans.
Martin Luther King was an eloquent speaker, and has impressive massive gathering by his oratory skills. He believed in Mahatma Gandhi's non-violent resistance and wanted to claim the rights of Negro citizens without violence. Due to his oratory skills the patriotism towards the country, even many white people supported his movement and took part in the demonstration enthusiastically. 

 
Style and Rhetorics 

1. Explain King's analogy of the bad check. 

Ans.
 In 1787, the constitution of America guaranteed the black citizens of America rights of life, liberty and pursuit of happiness without any kind of racial discrimination. Again, in 1862, Emancipation Proclamation was issued to free all the slaves and black people were given equal rights as American citizens. But during the century long practice, the Negros were deprived of all above rights by different level of government authorities.
Martin Luther King makes an analogy of promissory notes as promises of the constitution of American and Emancipation Proclamation and since the promises were not fulfilled and equal rights were not given, he portrayed the promissory note as bad check. They were given a drug of gradualism but they were never given complete liberty, rights or pursuit of happiness, he clarified. 


2. Where in the speech does he acknowledge that not all his listeners are black? 

Ans.
 Martin Luther King has quoted in his speech the presence of white people in mass demonstration and address to white people for their solidarity and brotherhood. 

 
