Summary 

William Shakespeare is a renowned English play wright and an actor. His collections include thirty eight plays, two narrative poems, one hundred and fifty-four sonnets and a variety of English poems. He is considered to be the greatest dramatist of all times and also the national poet of England. 

Full Fathom Five Thy Father Lies is a poem extracted from Shakespear's play ;the Tempest , act I scene II. 

The song is sung by spirit Ariel for Ferdinand , the prince of Naples who thinks his father has drowned. The prince feels immensely sad on his father's death. Seeing this the ariel sympathises and consoles him by saying that his father's life hasn’t been wasted after death. Infact is transformed into something valuable. For his father is now thirty feet below the sea and has been warmly welcomed by the sea nymphs. His bone is transformed into beautiful corals and his eyes has changed into pearls. His death has been meaningful as every part of his body has been changed into something rich and strange. He has been welcomed by the sea nymph with honour as they ring the 'ding dong' bell for his death and considers him to be a part of their family now. Nothing of him has faded, but suffered a sea change.  

Humans are a part of nature so  after death they are submerged into it.  Life is never wasted but is transformed into something valuable is gist of this poem. Hence life is equally meaningful after death. 

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. Is death meaningful in the poem? 

Ans. 
Yes, death is very meaningful in the poem. After the death of Ferdinand  (Prince of Naples)  father, which lies thirty feet below the sea has been transformed into something valuable and strange. His bones were transformed into coral and his eyes changed into pearls. His death was honoured by the sea nymph by ringing the 'ding dong' bell. 

Nothing of him had faded but suffered a sea change. He is now the family of sea nymph. Hence, his death is meaningful. 

 

Style and Rhetoric 


1) Find example of onomatopoeia, alliteration and assonance in the poem. How do they contribute to the meaning of the poem?  

Ans.  
To make the poem more appealing Shakespear has used onomatopoeia, alliteration and assonance. 

Onomatopoeia- It is the formation of word from the sound associated  with what it is named. For example, 'ding dong' bell. Ding dong is the sound associated to bell.  

Alliteration- It is the occurring of same letter or sound at the beginning of the closely connected word.  For example, Full Fathom Five Thy Father Lies. Here the word F has occurred several times.  

Assonance- It is the resemblance of sound between syllables of nearby words, arising particularly from rhyming of two or more stressed vowel. For example, d- i -ng   d-o- ng. 

These make the poem more interesting and appealing to the readers. Hence, the important scenarios are stressed by adding these words.     

