Summary 

‘The Gingerbread House’ by Robert Coover is an adaptation of ‘ Hansel and Gretel’. In  this adaption, the writer mainly focuses on the hardships faced by the children on their journey. Inspite of living with their biological father, the children are abandoned and the writer primarily focuses on their survival by themselves.  

Once, an old man who was very poor lived with two children. He loved his children very much but the circumstances made him take the decision of leaving them alone in the pine forest. Despite his unwillingness, he took his children for a walk in the pine forest. The children were walking with torn clothes and were bare feet. The little girl was singing nursery rhymes and the boy was busy throwing breadcrumbs on the way. The father was feeling terribly guilty. But he was looking for a chance to leave the children in the thick forest. As they were walking in the forest, they happen to come across a witch who had worn black dress. The witch was paled skin, very thin and her eyes twisted like burning coals. She seemed to be very vicious. The witch grabbed a dove by her hand, ripped its heart out right in front of the children who were terrified to the very core. The encounter with the witch made them petrified.  Eventually, they reached to a ‘Gingerbread House’ after walking on biscuits through a garden of sugar. The house was made of sweets, chocolates and sugars. There was a sticky garden of sweets. The house had a red heart shaped door which would shine like ruby. The place was shiny and beautiful with fresh air. The house had a river of honey and lollipops grew like daisies. The place was amusing. 

The old man and the children spent their night in the forest.  The boy realized that the breadcrumbs he had thrown were eaten up by birds. The old man tried to leave the children while they were sleeping but they started following him. He got frustrated and pushed his children away from him. The children wept but the old man left the two of them on their own in the dense forest. The children faced many obstacles while they were on their way. However, they didn’t give up no matter how tough the situation was. As they were walking along, they reached to the gingerbread house. They were pretty much amused to see everything so fascinating. They fell upon the sticky garden of sweets, they licked each other happily. They were enjoying every bits of the moment until they heard a terrible sound of the witch flapping her black rags. 

The witch imprisoned Hansel and fed him delicious foods whereas made the sister; Gretel to do laborious chores of the house. Every day the witch checked on the boy to see how much he had fattened. Hansel deceived the woman with the help of a bone. The witch realized that the boy would never be as she wanted him to be, so she stopped feeding the boy. The next day, she ordered Gretel to fetch her some water so as to end Hansel and Gretel’s life. The witch had prepared an oven to kill the siblings. Gretel with her wittiness asked the woman to demonstrate of how she was going to end their life. While the witch was entering her head into the oven to show she had planned everything, the girl pushed her inside the oven and released her brother. The brother and sister lived happily with no obstacles in the gingerbread house after have been fighting for a long time. 

 