Summary 

God's Grandeur is a sonnet written by the English poet Gerald Manley Hopkins. The word "grandeur" means greatness or grandness. The poet conveys his reverence for the greatness of god and his despair about the way humanity has seemed to forget about god's greatness due to modernization.  

The poet describes the natural world energized with god's magnificence and greatness. God's presence is flame-like flashes which resembles the shining of metal foil when taken in the light. He believes that god's greatness is like a rich oil, which true power is only revealed when crushed to the essence. He also believes that god's greatness might not be seen when the elements are fragmented but his greatness is reflected in unified form. Then he questions the atheists for not believing in existence of god and his commands. 

Earth, the element of nature has been destroyed by the human on the name of modernization. The poet detest the distance created between human and gods due to materialism. Due to which, he believes humanity has forgotten about god's greatness. Modernization has made the soil bare and the human feet is no longer able to feel the nature due to materialism.  

Even though, humans have performed disgraceful acts, he still believes god treats everyone/every part equally due to his benevolent nature. So, when there is darkness in one part of the world, the other part is brighter and vice versa. Despite the destruction of nature by humans, the poet claims that nature is permanent and life will continue to exist. Like a bird protects its babies by keeping them safe in their wings, the poet believes that earth is protected by Holy Ghost(God).  

Therefore the poet believes that god's role is both creator and destroyer. All life continues to exist because of the god.  God is omniscient, omnipresent and omnipotent.  

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. What is the central idea of the poem? 

Ans.
The poet has a feeling of deep respect towards the magnificence of god. He expresses his reverence for the greatness of god and despairs the destruction of beauty of nature brought up by modernization through the poem. The poet says that god is benevolent and is indifferent towards human despite the destruction of nature due to human activities. He claims that nature is permanent and all life continues to exist because of the god.  

The poet believes that world is energized with greatness of god which shines like a metal foil when kept in the light. His true greatness is only revealed in unified form. The poet depicts the bare soil brought up by the ugliness of industrialisation and the distance created between human and nature due to materialism. Despite the rapid destruction of beauty of nature, god treats everyone equally. The poet claims that nature cannot be spent and life will always continue to exist as every life is protected by Holy God. 

 

Style and Rhetoric 

1. What do the words seared, bleared, smeared suggest? 

Ans.
Seared in the poem "God's Grandeur" refers burning the surface of something which effects the sense of sight, taste or touch. Here, it damages the humans ability to interact with nature. 

Smearing and blearing refers to the oily or dirty smudge drawn across the previously clear surface such as eyes or the lens. It distorts the image of nature we are getting through eyes or lens. 

"Seared" suggests injury. "Smeared" and "bleared" suggests defilement.  These words suggests destruction of beauty of nature. Human beings are engaged in trade and toil which have injured and defiled them and their sense of perception has been compromised. So human are no longer able to perceive the god's grandeur.   


