Summary 

'Grandmother' is a poem written by Ray Young Bear. He is an American (Red Indian) writer who mainly writes about the community Mesquaki, a trivial group living away from the main area of America. His common theme is search of identity. The poem is written in nostalgic tone. It is about the writer and his intimate relationship with his grandmother who is also actually the representation of the native American women.  

The poet says that he was very close with his grandmother. He was able to recognize her by looking at her purple scarf and the plastic bag, even if she was far away. He could also feel her 'warm and damp' hands which always blessed him. He even knew her smell and was able to recognize his grandmother even from her voice. The poet also says that the words of his grandmother always motivated and inspired him and filled him with hopes. These senses of sight, touch, smell and sound have presented the importance of his grandmother. Grandmother shows her love and affection towards her grandchild in such a way that the grandchild always remembers and misses her.  

The poet has used all small letters in the poem to protest against the discrimination faced by his community. The metaphors used in the poem also compare grandmother with his culture and his people. The poet is trying to plea for equality. 



Understanding and Interpretation 

1. What images do you find in this poem written by a member of the Sauk and Fox (Mesquaki) Indian tribe of North America? To what senses do these images appeal? 

Ans. 
An image is the picture that comes in the mind of a reader while reading a poem. Various sensuous images are used in the poem which creates a picture of the grandmother. The images used in poem are visual image, tactile image, olfactory image, audible image, thermal image and kinetic image. 

The visual image mentioned by the poet is the purple scarf and the plastic bag which appeal the sense of sight. The warm and damp hands come under the tactile image which gives sense of touching and feeling.  Smell of roots is the olfactory image. This gives the sense of smell.  The audible image is the voice coming from the rock which appeals to the sense of hearing. 

Sleeping fire is mentioned as thermal image. The words that flow inside the speaker are the kinetic image. This gives the sense of hearing and feeling.   

By the use of these images he talks about his lost culture.   

 

2. How does the speaker feel towards his grandmother? In what words or lines does he make his feelings clear? 

Ans. 
The speaker has a feeling of great respect and affection towards his grandmother.  He has tried to manifest their intimate relation in the poem.  He says that his grandmother is all loving and caring.  She is also ever blessing as well as all motivating. He makes these feelings clear using various sensuous images.  He can identify her wearing purple scarf and carrying a plastic bag even if he sees her from the distance. When she puts her warm and damp hands on his head, he receives all the blessings and inspiration from her. He can fell her hard work. She always motivates him with her words and fills him with enthusiasm. He says that his grandmother's words flow like light. These words guide him to choose he correct path. 

Hence, the poet says that though his grandmother is no longer with him, he always misses her affection and caring nature.

 