Summary 

Gretel, written by Garrison Keillor, is an interpretation of the story Hansel and Gretel from the feminine point of view. In this adaptation, Gretel is shown as a strong and dominant person. She is a radical feminist who strongly opposes the male dominance , inequality and injustice of the society. She believes that men are very cruel and selfish. Hence, she blames her father and brother for her sufferings. 

Gretel is angry with her brother for deceiving her by not giving her the share of money she owns by selling the books. According to her, her father and her brother are the ones responsible for leaving them in the dense jungle. She mocks her brother saying that despite being a male he is weak as she has to beat him to make him walk and also carry him on her back. She also expresses anger towards her father who is a drunkard. She criticizes him for dominating his wife  and not giving her the share of her property. She even thinks that her step-mother is not a bad person , neither is the witch. Infact, she sympathizes them. Gretel believes the witch to be a kind hearted person as she gave them cakes, breads to eat and a place to live in . 

Gretel firmly believes that women should stand for themselves and against the male superiority that prevails in our society. She thinks women and men should have equal rights. She wants to make women aware of themselves and the injustice towards them. She believes that if women become capable of raising their voices against the unfairness towards them, men will not be able to suppress them. This will end women exploitation and discrimination towards them. She has indeed proven to be a strong, bold, witty, and strong-headed character who is brave enough to expose the selfishness and cruelty of men and criticize them. 

 

DISCUSSION 

1. Sum up gretel's characters in your own words. What kind of person is she? What are her values?  

Ans.
In "Gretel" , which is an interpretation of the folk-tale 'Hansel and Gretel' , Keillor presents Gretel as a radical or militant feminist. Her character is sketched as a dominating, strong and confident person. She is strongly against the male dominance, sex discrimination and inequality of the society. she believes that if women stand against these injustices and fight for their rights, men will not be able to suppress and exploit them as they've been doing until now. She encourages women to be aware and make the right choices. She wants women to raise their voices against male dominance and have equal respect in the society as that of men. Hence, Gretel is a strong-minded, courageous , bold and clever character and is admired by the readers for her qualities. 

 