Summary 

'Hurried trip to avoid a bad star' is a part of an article 'Karnali, Road less world of western Nepal' by Lilla M. and C. Bishop Barry. It presents the exploration of the western region which the author did on foot for 15 adventurous months. The authors have descried about Karnali region and the people living there. 

 As the writers wanted to know how Karnali is economically linked with Nepalgunj, they followed other farmers to the Southern part.  The farmers brought may things like medicinal herbs, hashish, hand-knit sweaters and blankets with them to sell those all. On their path, a Chhetri woman of 30 asked them whether they were going to Nepalgunj. If so, then she requested them to send her husband back home if they met him on the way.  In a forest, they saw some people processing Silajit to sell it in Nepalgunj.  When the author asked why they were doing so, they replied that they did it because they have made a hurried trip to avoid a bad start. This shows that people of the Karnali regions are superstitious and have lack of knowledge about many things. As they continued moving, they noticed some women cutting the branches of trees to feed their cattle. Those people recklessly cutting tress show that the people living there don't know about the possible environmental damage. They lack knowledge about its consequences. When they reached plains, they saw people buying and selling goods and also observed the environment of Terai. They saw bullock carts, heard squeak of fruit bats, yapping of jackals. They walked on the paved streets and saw the vehicles. In this way they complete their exploration by expressing the need of educating people in Karnali region. 



Understanding and Interpretation 

1. Write a paragraph or two to show how Karnali is linked economically with the lowland region to the south. 

Ans. 
People of Karnali are directly as well as indirectly linked economically with the lowland region to the south. They sell different products in the southern region and also buy many products from there. People take different products like medicinal herbs, hashish, hand-knit sweaters and blankets with them to sell those all. They also buy different products like clothes, food, liquor and many more things from lowlands. When they return home from lowlands,  they bring necessary goods like aluminium and iron wares, cotton clothes, jewellery items and spices, then sell in their locality to earn a living.  

 
2. What does skeletal looking  SAL trees indicate about the exploitation of nature? What does the reply “What we can do? The animals must eat today” signify? 

Ans. 
Skeletal looking SAL trees indicate about the deforestation in the Karnali region. People are recklessly cutting tress without knowing its consequences. They are cutting tress for the needs of their present but do not know how it will affect their future. People carelessly cut tress in the jungle but they are not aware about its results. This shows they are ignorant and destroying the nature. 

  
3. Give a short account of life of Karnali zone people. 

Ans. 
The people in Karnali zone were facing many difficulties. Karnali zone is not developed and not well-connected with other parts of the country. People are superstitious and have lack of knowledge about many things. Women cut the branches of trees to feed their cattle. Those people recklessly cutting tress show that the people living there don't know about the possible environmental damage. In few years there were high chances of the slopes being cleared.  They lack knowledge about its consequences.   They don't know about conservation of nature.  They are also economically dependent on the lowlands. They buy and sell products from the lowlands and earn a living. They may be ignorant but they all are optimistic. 

