Summary 

‘Hansel and Gretel’ written by the Grimm brothers focuses on the story of a father, a stepmother and their children. The writer shows that   eventually, the good force always emerges victory and the evil force suffers.  

Once upon a time, a poor woodcutter along with his family lived near a forest. He had two children; Hansel and Gretel who were treated cruelly by their stepmother. Once there was a famine in the village which made the situation worse for the family to sustain their life. The stepmother being evil, suggested her husband to leave his children into the forest. The husband was compelled to do as his wife suggested for she was pig headed. 

One morning, the stepmother asked the siblings to get ready to go to the forest. Hansel, who had overheard the conversation of his parents the earlier night, had collected pebbles. As the family left their home, Hansel dropped pebbles on the way. After walking for some time, the stepmother asked the children to wait for them to return. But it turned out to be a trick to leave the children in the forest. The boy was quite aware of the situation. At midnight, as they woke up, Hansel and Gretel thought of returning to their house which was possible by the assistance of the pebbles which the boy had successfully dropped on the way. The father was very delighted to see his children back whereas the stepmother was indifferent and very furious. 

After sometime, there was another famine in the village, which made the stepmother take the very same decision to sustain their life. The father was unwilling but he couldn’t deny to what his wife had suggested. The boy, unlike the previous time, could not collect pebbles because the mother had locked their door. The next morning, the children were woken up and were given breads to eat. Hansel kept the bread in his pocket and dropped pieces of breadcrumbs on their way. The parents again left the children in the forest. But this time, the sibling couldn’t return because the breadcrumbs dropped by the boy were eaten up by birds. Hopelessness and desperation lead them to walk whichever path they wanted to. As they were walking along, they reached to a house made of bread and cakes. They were jumping along with excitement when they heard a soft voice from the house. A woman, who was a witch, would eat children. She imprisoned Hansel and fed her delicious foods whereas made the sister; Gretel to do laborious chores of the house. Every day the witch checked on the boy to see how much he had fattened. Hansel deceived the woman with the help of a bone. The witch realized that the boy would never be as she wanted him to be, so she stopped feeding the boy. The next day, she ordered Gretel to fetch her some water so as to end Hansel and Gretel’s life. The witch had prepared an oven to kill the siblings. Gretel with her wittiness asked the woman to demonstrate of how she was going to end their life. While the witch was entering her head into the oven to show she had planned everything, the girl pushed her inside the oven and released her brother. The house had some hidden treasures which were collected by the children and they proceeded towards their home. Meanwhile, on the way back to their home, they looked up to a duck to return. They were warmly welcomed by their father who was more than happy to have his children by his side. The stepmother who was very cruel towards them had died. They were happy to live a happy life with all the treasures they had taken from the woman’s house. 


