Summary

"The Lamentation of the Old Pensioner" written by W.B. Yeats, presents the speaker's memory of his young life which becomes more distressing when he contrasts his time of youth with his present. He laments on his past youth. 

In the past, speaker was young and had a better life compared to his present. Mainly, he recollects about his joyful youth when he used to have company, more energy and be a happy person. His attention is deeply focused on time which has changed him to an ugly old man. Here, he mainly recalls his past days and expresses his grief on the loss of it. He realizes that time is his greatest enemy that has changed him and expresses his anger by spitting on the face of time. He also blames times of being conspirator criminal and cruel. It murdered all sorts of happiness and pleasure. He talks about his youth when he used to sit round the fire with his friends and they used to talk about love or politics.  

But now, he takes shelter under a tree just remembering the days of his past. He knows and he feels that the old age is very painful. He also has the sense of loneliness and the only thing that gives him pleasure is imagination. No woman turn their face at the time. His memory of young age makes him feel sad and dissatisfied. The title itself expresses the real feeling of the old man. He feels that being old is very hard as he has no one to spend his time with. He compares himself with a broken tree without its leaves. Mainly, he expresses his hatred towards time that took away all of his vitality, energy and power. Indeed, most of the old men complain about the loss of energy, the feeling of loneliness and fear visits their mind. They have nothing except the memory of bygone past. 

The poem ends as he curses time, which has changed him from young, energetic, popular, happy to weak, ugly, sad and old man. 

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1) Explain the title of the poem. 

Ans. 
The title of the poem is appropriate to its subject matter. The poem is about the lamentation of the old man who is in meditative mood because of his old age. He remembers his past when he used to 'talk of love and politics' but now, everything is lost because he has become a broken tree without its leaves. 

No woman paid attention to him due to his shadowless age, though he still recalls the woman he once loved. He remembers that he was happier, stronger, more cheerful and more active when he was young. He compares his youth with old age and finds it more distressing and more hurting. The poem ends as he curses. Time, which has changed him from young to old. Therefore, the title of the poem is appropriate. 

 
2) What does the poem add to our knowledge of the old man( his character, attitude, circumstances)? 

Ans.
 The old man, the pensioner recalls his past days and laments on the loss of it, we can think of the condition of people around us. The first stanza suggests that he was a sociable person. Moreover, he used to be among a large company. He used to sit round the fire with his friends and they used to talk of love or politics.  

However, the speaker's attention is deeply focused on time which has changed him into an old, worthless, powerless man(broken tree) therefore, he only remembers and expresses his sorrow for that passing youth , vigour, and beauty. Now he takes shelter under a tree remembering the days of past. He feels that old age is very helpless and painful. He is now wrinkled, weak and alone. He has the sense of loneliness. The only thing that gives him pleasure is imagination. 

 

3) Describe the shifts in subject matter in the three stanzas. What is the effect of these shifts? 

Ans. 
In the first stanza, the speaker describes about his youth when he used to be interested in love and politics. But the times have changed and he now has turned into an old man, who is in completely different state. IN the second stanza, he talks about his present time. He is observing the boys making weapons for some kind of fight, But as said before he has no interest in their activities. He is thinking of the time which has changed him into an ugly old man. Finally, the subject shifts to love. He remembers his beauties that he loved who are in his memory. He becomes angry with the time and spits into the face of time. 

 

STYLE AND RHETORICS 

1) Explain the significance of the refrain in the poem. 

Ans. 
Refrain is the repetition of words, phrases, and lines in a text. Refrain shows the intensity of the idea. This creates emotional and artistic effects to the readers. The refrain "time has transfigured me" adds more meaning to the attitude of the speaker towards time. It shows that time is his only enemy. The use of refrain shows that the old man is more concerned with and age. Moreover, it also intensifies the old man's hatred towards time. 

 
2) What is the tone of the poem: complacency, resignation, rage? Why? 

Ans.
The tone of the speaker is rage. In the poem, he deeply laments for his youth. He recollects the experience of his past and finds present days more painful and agonizing. His attention is deeply focused on time that has changed him into an ugly old man. He is now like a broken tree. He realizes that time is his greatest enemy that has changed him into an old man from his youth and expresses his anger by spitting on the face of time. His anger can be clearly felt in the poem. 

Time has been personified. The speaker blames times of being conspirator criminal and cruel. It murdered his all sorts of happiness and pleasure. It was because time transformed him from energetic, popular, happy and active young man to weak, ugly, unpopular, sad and old man. 

 

DISCUSSION 

  

1. Write a paragraph on 'An Old Man Remembers'. 

Ans. 
An old man sitting under a broken tree remembers his past and compares it with the present. He finds present is more agonizing and more painful. The old man recalls his by gone days and laments on it with it. He used to sit round the fire and talk of love and politics. The young people, even now, are engaged in warfare and struggle to fight against is deeply focused on time that has changed him into an old and incapacitated man. Therefore, he only remembers and expresses his sorrow for that passing youth. Now he takes shelter under a tree recollecting the days of past. He feels that old age is very helpless and painful. He is now wrinkled, weak and alone. He has the sense of loneliness, only thing that gives him pleasure is imagination. No women turn their face at him. His memory of young age makes him feel sad and dissatisfied. Indeed, most of the old men complain about on the loss of energy. The feeling of misery, loneliness and fear visits their mind. He has nothing except the memory of the beyond days.  

 