Summary  

The story 'The last Voyage of the Ghost Ship' has been written by a Columbian Nobelist Garbriel  Garcio Marquez. In this story, the writer has used two technique of writing; magic realism and stream of consciousness. This story describes the growth of an ordinary boy to an assertive young man. 

As we go through the story, we find that the protagonist, the little boy encounters a ghost ship which others don’t see. The surprising thing  is that it disappears when there is light and  appears when there is no light. The boy is surprised with the ship but he thinks  he might be having a dream. The boy sees the same ship in the next March and tells  his mother about it. She doesn't believe him. She says that his mind is rotting away. As s she tries to confirm she sees nothing except some fish playing in the water. She becomes sad and worried about her son. One day, she brings  a chair and begins to see the sea sitting on it. She remembers  her dead husband and mourns for him. She becomes excited and dies. Other four women also die who use the chair  so it is an accursed chair. The boy becomes orphan and he doesn’t want to live with anyone’s mercy. As an orphan he lives on stealing fishes he has nothing to live on also because no villagers help him . 

People started to beat, hated him. People threw the evil chair into the sea. The boy got more problems and obstacles while growing up day by day. He determined strongly to prove who he was. Isolation and anger made the boy strong, courageous and adventurous. He stole a boat and waited for the ghost ship. The ship reappeared and the boy guided it to the village's church. They were surprised to see the large ghost ship. Finally, the boy proved himself matured, strong, adventurous and assertive by showing the existence of the large Ghost Ship to the villagers. 

 

Understanding and Intepretation

 
1. How are the protagonist's encounters with the ghost ship linked to this movement toward mature strength? Why does no one else know of the ships existence? 

Ans:
According to the narration, the boy observes the ship continuously   for four years in the month of march. The ship is ghostly because it is seen only in the darkness of the night as well as only by the narrator. Inspite of the trauma finally he becomes successful bringing it at the shore and show it to the villagers. Infact the story presents the boy's inner journey from  innocence to the experiment of being an assertive young man. The ship stands for boys imagination  and his encounter with the ship every year indicates his growth, physical as well as mental. The story shows the boy's attainment of maturity, ho he grows up as confident young man and proves  his ability at the end. 
No one in the village can see it because the ship is just the symbol of the boys  imagination what he targets making his future. Thus only the boy can see his imagination where the others cannot see it. 

 
2. What do you think is the meaning of the boy's newly discovered ability near the end of the story to control the ship's movement? 

Ans. 
As a boy, when he talked about the ghost ship, no one believed, not even his own mothers. Rather he was ill-treated and beaten mercilessly by the villagers. However, such action  encouraged him to prove what he had seen and what he could do. In the span of four years' time, he grew up from a boy to a mature young man. His experience made him more imaginable, courageous and more determined which enabled him to control the movement of the ship. Once the ship is under his control he proves his ability to the villagers leaving them spell bind.  
 

3. What is the protagonist asserting when he brings "the largest ocean liner in this world and other" into his village? 

Ans. 
The protagonist is determined to bring the ship because he is revengeful. Besides , he has been underestimated and often beaten, so he wants to prove his ability that he is not an ordinary and nonsense fellow but a man with ability and worth making the society. 

 