Summary 

'The Little Brother and the Little Sister' is about the account of ' Hansel and Gretel' in a different way. The children are not identified by their names but are identified by their relationship, hence the title 'The Little Brother and the Little Sister'. 
Once upon a time, a poor woodcutter along with his family lived near a forest. He had two children; who were treated cruelly by their stepmother. Once there was a famine in the village which made the situation worse for the family to sustain their life. The stepmother being evil, suggested her husband to leave his children into the forest. The husband was compelled to do as his wife suggested for she was pig headed.  One morning, the stepmother asked the siblings to get ready to go the forest. The boy , who had overheard the conversation of his parents the earlier night, had collected pebbles. As the family left their home, the boy dropped pebbles on the way. After walking for some time, the stepmother asked the children to wait for them to return. But it turned out to be a trick to leave the children in the forest. The boy was quite aware of the situation. At midnight, as they woke up, the siblings thought of returning to their house which was possible by the assistance of the pebbles which the boy had successfully dropped on the way. The father was very delighted to see his children back whereas the stepmother was indifferent and very furious. After sometime, there was another famine in the village, which made the stepmother take the very same decision to sustain their life. The father was unwilling but he couldn’t deny to what his wife had suggested. The boy, unlike the previous time, could not collect pebbles because the mother had locked their door. The next morning, the children were woken up and were given breads to eat. He kept the bread in his pocket and dropped pieces of breadcrumbs on their way. The parents again left the children in the forest. But this time, the siblings couldn’t return because the breadcrumbs dropped by the boy were eaten up by birds. Hopelessness and desperation lead them to walk whichever path they wanted to. As they were walking along, they reached to a house made of bread and cakes. They were jumping along with excitement when they heard a soft voice from the house. A woman, who was a witch, would eat children. She imprisoned the brother and fed him delicious foods whereas made the sister; the little girl to do laborious chores of the house. Every day the witch checked on the boy to see how much he had fattened. The boy deceived the woman with the help of a bone. The witch realized that he would never be as she wanted him to be, so she stopped feeding the boy. The next day, she ordered the little sister to fetch her some water so as to end her brother and her life. The witch had prepared an oven to kill the siblings. The girl with her wittiness asked the woman to demonstrate of how she was going to end their life. While the witch was entering her head into the oven to show how she had planned everything, the girl pushed her inside the oven and released her brother. The house had some hidden treasures which were collected by the children and they proceeded towards their home. Meanwhile, on the way back to their home, they looked up to a duck to return. They were warmly welcomed by their father who was more than happy to have his children by his side. The stepmother who was very cruel towards them had died. They were happy to live an independent life with all the treasures they had taken from the woman’s house. 

Discussions: 
 
1. We can see now that what we thought was the 'original' text was itself a transfromation of another 'original', a transformation that rewrites significant figures of the manuscript version. Note and discuss the major changes you find, talking 'the Little Brother and Sister' as the original and 'Hansel and Gretel' as the transformation.
 
Ans.
'The Little Brother and the Little Sister'  is a story of siblings who have faced troubles and hardships on their journey to finally live an independent life on their own. The siblings are abandoned by their father and are left in a dense forest. They come through a series of obstacles yet they do not give up. The siblings support each other to rise up. This fairy tale focuses on the relationship of a brother with his sister and vice versa. Whereas, the story ' Hansel and Gretel ' by the Grimm Brothers presents the psychology of an evil step mother. It represents about how two children are illtreated by their stepmother and are taken as a burden. However, both the stories focuses on the two of them facing hardships and obstacles on their journey. 


