2076  SET'A'  

 
1.Read the following passage and answer the following questions: [5*3=15] 

 

Compulsory and methodized course of study which is prevalent all over the world today is against human freedom. Such as education suppresses individual freedom and man is denied free choice, creativity and brilliance. It is a dictatorial act to force a human being to learn according to set curriculum. The prevailing methods of education should be abolished through a global cultural revolution so that man's mind can be free from restraint. The society must strive to provide all types of education so that man can choose freely any subject he desires to learn. Man's freedom is restricted because of the less number of schools. Such societies which attempt to ban and monopolize knowledge are reactionary and prejudiced towards ignorance and opposed to man's freedom. 

 

Questions: 

a. Why does the writer think that compulsory and methodized course of study is against human freedom? 

b. According to the speaker what kind of work is dictatorial? 

c. Why should we abolish the prevailing methods of education? 

d. What should the society strive to provide? 

e. What does the writer think of such societies which attempt to ban and monopolize knowledge? 

 

2. Answer any five of the following questions. [5*5=15] 

a. What was the motive of the old man in killing the boy? (Purgatory) 

b. How did Mrs. Mooney show her boldness, determination and straight-forward nature in the story? (The Boarding House) 
 
c. Why was Tammy not adopted? (The Children Who Wait) 

d. Why did the villagers beat the boy? (The Last Voyage of the Ghost Ship) 

e. What did the people of Karnali zone sell in the market of Nepalgunj? (Hurried Trip to Avoid a Bad Star) 

f. Why did the poet condemn the time? (The lamentation of the Old Pensioner)  

 

3. Answer any one of the following questions. [1*10=10] 

a. Retell the story 'Hansel and Gretel'. How does Gretel show her cleverness at the end? 

b. What is the significance of repetition, 'rushing around like a squirrel in a cage'? Does this repetition focus on the present condition of the narrator?  

 

4. Rewrite these sentences, beginning with the words given. [5] 

Example: He is in agony. 

=He looks as if............ 

  He looks as if he is in agony. 

a. He's lived on his own house most of his life. 

    He seems....................... 

b. Someone's knocking the wall down. 

    It sounds........................ 

c. He has terrible personal problem. 

    He seems....................... 

d. They are enjoying themselves. 

    They look........................ 

e. He has lived a very interesting life.  

     He looks.......................... 

 

5. How would you describe a person who......? [5] 

a. Gives away lots of money. 

b. Expects good things to happen. 

c. Is careful not to hurt others feelings. 

d. Jokes about everything. 

e. Expects bad things to happen. 

 

6. Change the suggestions below, using: [5] 

Ought to, ought not to, might as well, or there's no point in. 

Example: Let's not take the lift- he lives on the first floor. 
                 There's no point in taking the lift.  

a. Don’t take your children to see that film- it'll frighten them. 

b. Lei's not sell it- it's not worth anything away.  

c. Don’t ask him- he doesn't speak English. 

d. Why don’t you take a pull over- it might turn cold. 

e.  Why don’t we give it away- it's not worth anything away.  

 

7. For each of the following situations, make sentences with I wish/ If only/... using would or could whichever is correct. [5] 

Example: You are lost.  

I wish I could telephone the police. 

a.It's raining. 

b. I can't open the door. 

c. You're lonely. 

d. You're ill in bed. 

e. Your car has broken down. 

 

8. Complete these sentences in one word. [5] 

a. When metal is heated, it ................. 

b. The sun came out and the snow began to ................. 

c.  After a few days, the cement will ............... 

d. When you pull elastic, it ................. 

e. Put the aspirin in water and leave it to .............. 

 

9. Change the following sentences using when instead of and or but. [5] 

a. She peeled the banana and gave it to the baby. 

b. I looked in the fridge and found some sausage. 

c. He kicked the dog and oit braked.  

d. He drank the coffee and asked for another cup.  

e. I read the letter and throw it into the wastepaper basket.  

 

10. Write a paragraph about a senior social worker whom you like the most. [5] 

11. Imagine about a beautiful place in your district. Write a paragraph describing its importance. [5]  

12. Write a letter to the mayor of your city asking him to improve the condition of the streets. [10] 

13. Write a few paragraph on the importance of unity among the people. Talk about the advantages of being united. [10]  

 

 

 

 

2076  SET'B' 

  

1. Read the following passage and answer the questions that follow. [5*3=15] 

 

Violence has become a way of life today. Terrorists kill people without any sense of remorse; communalists indulge in violence without any reason. Politicians boost up their image by patronising violence, workers and students resort to violence for getting their grievances redressed. Non-violence movement exemplified by Buddha has almost lost from the psyche of many people. In its place we have accepted naked and maimed beggar, child labour, burning of brides and countless deaths as a result of war or accident. The two new types of violence- terrorism and rioting-make the age-old caste-based notion of untouchability pale into in significance. All these have left people unmoved by human sufferings. Such a blunting of emotions itself manifests in a variety of psychological reactions. 

 

Death is simply reported numerically- ten killed, three injured. These faceless nameless dead seen non-human. It fails to arouse any deep feeling of loss or pains. 

Questions: 

a. What are the two types of violence mentioned in the passage? How have they affected the system of the country? 

b. How do the terrorists rationalize their activities? 

c. What have people accepted in place of non-violent movement? 

d.  According to the author, what seems to be unhuman? 

e. Summarize the text in one sentence. 

 

2. Answer any five of the following questions: [5*3=15] 

a. How does the old man annoy the narrator? (The Tell-Tale Heart) 

b. What role does Gretel play in the story? How does she free her brother? (Hansel and Gretel) 

c. What is the significance of starting and ending the essay with the reference of tammy, the Negro Child? (The Children Who Wait) 

d. What compels the narrator to quit his prestigious position and start the monotonous work of farming? (About Love) 

e. How is death taken in the poem? Is it a transition from one form to the other form of life? Explain. (Full Fathom Five Thy Father Lies) 

f.  Write in short 'the unkind and inhuman' nature of the grown-ups that they show to the boy, the narrator of the story. (A Story)  

 

3. Answer any one of the following questions. [1*10=10] 

a. What kind of business did the business women from Pinkham to Malone, begin? What was their main purpose? Explain. (Women's Business) 

b. What are the two long term problems as described by Moti Nissani. (Two Long Term Problems) 

 

4. Rewrite these sentences using seem (to be). [5] 

a. Mr. Pun is a social worker. 

b. He is honest in his activities. 

c. He doesn't like gossiping. 

d. He honours the seniors and loves the juniors. 

e. He is liked by all.  

 

5. Change these yes/no questions below into information questions; as in the example. [5] 

Example: Are we getting up at 7 O'clock today? 

                What time are we getting up today? 

a. Are you planning to stay in Pokhara for a week? 

b. Did you buy brown/grey colour sweater for me? 

c. Do you take 40/42 size of shoes? 

d. Are there four/five/six of you? 

e. Did you perform worship at 6:30? 

 

6. Report the following remarks, beginning:- He told me......  [5] 

a. My subject teacher will inform me soon. 

b. The game warden was not involved in unlawful works. 

c. The culprits ate trying to make money easily. 

d. People in remote areas have not got proper health services. 

e. Nepal can be hub for medica science. 

 

7. Rewrite the following sentences, using past perfect tense in the spaces given.  [5] 

a. My parents sent me all the books I................... 

b. The students showed all the medals they.................. 

c. The NTC repaired all the telephones that.................. 

d. I could not submit the essay I ........................ 

e. The juniors played much better than we ....................... 

 

8. Change the sentences below, using: 

(i) As soon as + past + past 

Or,   (ii)As soon as + past perfect + past,  whichever is appropriate. [5] 

a. I broke the vase and I burst into tears. 

b. The thief opened the window and the bell rang. 

c. The coordinator entered the classroom and he started counselling students. 

d. The programme was over and the driver started the bus. 

e. I finished reading the book and returned it to the library. 

 

9. Change the following remarks using supposed to.  [5] 

a. I have heard that it is unlucky to walk under a ladder. 

b. We are told that she was a book-seller once. 

c. People say phoenix lived for three hundred years. 

d. They say the universe is expanding all the time. 

e. I am told that onion is good for health.  

 

10. Write a description of your brother/sister who is leaving for Pokhara today. [5] 

11. Write a paragraph expressing your attitude towards people who talk while crossing the road. (Use 'the way.....' Structure)  [5] 

12. Write an essay on 'Nepal: a hub for Medical Education'. Talk about Nepal's beautiful landscape, peaceful environment and hygienic living. [5] 

13. Write a job application for the position of a junior level counsellor that has fallen vacant in your college. Write to the director, XYZ college, state your age, qualifications, and experiences if you have any. [10]




SET-1 

 

1. Read the following passage and answer the question below: [15] 

 

Chronic bronchitis is a persistent inflammation, causing destructive changes in the mucous membrane and the structure of the tubes which carry air in and out of our lungs. When the lining of the bronchial tubes is irritated by inflection or the other causes, the mucous glands and cells overproduce in self-defence. Eventually the strain of constant coughing to remove the offending material collapses the microscopically thin walls of the bronchial passageways. Swollen and scarred, they become narrower. Thus, chronic bronchitis may set the stage for its more vicious partner, emphysema.  

 

Pulmonary emphysema, the most serious of the chronic respiratory diseases, breaks down the walls of the alveoli, tiny air sacs of which the lung is partly composed. Some 750million of these sacs are joined together in a grape like clusters at the end of the bronchioles- the smallest branches of the bronchial tree. Normally elastic, the alveoli expand and contract enabling the bellows- like lungs, assisted by the chest muscles, to carry out their vital function. Via a network of capillaries, running through the walls of the alveoli, oxygen is passed into the bloodstream while carbon dioxide is discharged from it. But in emphysema the air sacs lose their elasticity; they become inflated and, because of the obstruction and distortion of the air ways, cannot expel the captive air. Eventually they may rupture. This process is responsible for rapid, shallow, and laborious breathing. 

 

Nevertheless, because the normal human has six times the amount of lung tissue needed to breathe, emphysema is able to range out of control long before it was discovered. The disease may begin in the victim's late twenties, but he is not likely to suffer the first obvious symptom- sever shortness of breathe- until his forties and then he usually attributes it to middle age. 

 

Questions: 

a. What causes destructive changes in the mucous membrane? 

b. What is the primary function of the bronchial tube? 

c. What do the chest muscles do? 

d. What has caused the airways to be obstructed and distorted? 

e. What is emphysema able to range out if control long before it is discovered? 

 

2. Answer any five of the following: [5*3=15] 

a. How does the poem praise the glory and magnificence of God? (God's Grandeur) 

b. Is Mrs. Mooney successful in her mission at the end of the story? Explain. (The Boarding House) 

c. How can you say that the poet's grandmother is loving, inspiring and hardworking? (Grandmother) 

d. Why is Lydia Pinkham most notable character in the essay? Explain. (Women's Business) 

e. What are the consequences of overpopulation? Suggest some of the solutions of it. (Two long Term Problems........)  

 

3. Answer any one of the following: [10] 

a. What is purgatory? How is the title appropriate to the play "Purgatory"? Explain. 

b. Compare the trend of adoption twenty years ago with the one prevailing at present in America. Also mention the factors that brought changes in it. (The Children Who Wait) 

 

4. Rewrite the following sentences using must, can't or might/may. [5] 

a. I'm sure she is working. 

b. May be he was delayed. 

c. Perhaps he's telling the truth. 

d. I'm sure the snow has melted on Himalayas. 

e. I'm sure the share market is down. 

 

5. Change the following sentences choosing one of the verbs to report the remarks below. [5] 

Urge, insist, suggest, threaten, recommend  

a. I'll report to police if you don’t do what I say. 

b. You would better learn hard to achieve high profit.  

c. No, I have already told I won't marry you. 

d. You really ought to have your car serviced, you see. 

e. Why don't you paint the ceiling green? 

 

6. Read the following example and write the similar conversation. [5] 

E.g. Fine\for a parking offence? (Talking) 

A: Have you ever been fined for a parking offence? 

B: No, I haven't but I have been fined for talking. They caught me talking Nepali in English class. 

a. Steal/wallet? (mobile) 

b. Trap/in a lift? (classroom) 

c. X-ray/teeth? (chest) 

d. Fine/for a parking bike? (being absent) 

e. Throw/out of class? (library? 

 

7. Rewrite the following sentences using 'If there's one thing........' [5] 

a. People who pull others' hair irritate me. 

b. People who beat animals offend me. 

c. Jeena's hair is grey. I'm impressed. 

d. She has long hair. How attractive! 

e. They are laughing at the poor. How annoying!  

 

8. Fill in the gaps in the sentence below with for, in, until, or by. [5] 

a. Last night we talked.........two in the morning. 

b. The food will be ready.........7:30 p.m. 

c. We studied French.........four years. 

d. She learnt to run computer.........two months. 

e. I will be here........a couple of hours. 

 

9. Join the following sentences using an appropriate relative word. [5] 

a. Sanjina was woken up suddenly by the loud noise. She had been in a hard dream. 

b. The window was wide open. Mary had locked it securely the night before. 

c. The servant had left the house. Mary had laughed at them only that afternoon for being superstitious. 

d. Sarita saw an old white woman. Her mouth was twisted into a toothless grin. 

e. Mike heard a strange noise. It seemed to come from outside his window. 

 

10. What would you call a person who: [5] 

a. Jokes about everything. 

b. Lets people down. 

c. Worries about what people think. 

d. Helps other when in problem. 

e. Does not boast. 

 

11. Write a police description of the person you have chosen. [5] 

12. Write a job application for the post of a Security Guard in a famous bank of your locality. [10] 

13. Write an essay on the "Importance of Health Education" in school level curriculum. [10] 

 

 

 

 

SET-2 

 

1. Read the following passage and answer the questions below. [15]  

 

The inhabitants of Tango, a small island in the South Pacific, discovered a plant which contained a powerful drug. This drug made it more difficult for them to think rationally- it stopped them worrying about the future, and enabled them to forget all their problems. At the same time, it made it much easier for them to relax and enjoy themselves: so much so indeed, that the whole population of the island stopped working and spent all their time singing and dancing and looking at the sea. Unfortunately this had a very bad effect on the country's economy, and people began to run short of food. This however did not discourage the people from taking the drug. The prime minister made speeches in T.V. warning them about the drug, but nobody took any notice, and before long the economy was in ruins. This forced the government to make the drug illegal. But that only made the situation worse. The law couldn't prevent the people from taking the drug, which grew wild over the island: on the contrary, the fact the drug was illegal merely encouraged people to take it. Eventually, the Government found better solution: they exported the drug to other countries. This saved the islanders from having to work more than one day a week, and allowance them to spend the rest of their time sitting in the sun without care in the world. 

 

Questions: 

a. What effect did the drug have on people's mind? 

b. What effect did it have on the country's economy, and why? 

c. What did the Government do, and why weren't they successful? 

d. What did the Government do at the end, and why was that a better solution? 

e. What is the message of the text? 

 

2. Answer any five of the following questions: [5*3=15] 

a. What is the central idea of the poem "Lamentation of the Old pensioner"? 

b. Compare the love between Anna and Alyohin with the one between Nikanor and Pelageya. (About Love) 

c. Why does the poet lament in the poem? (The Lamentation of the Old Pensioner) 

d. Is death meaningful? Explain. (Full Fathom Five Thy Father Lies) 

e. Why were the businesswomen taken to the court? (Women's Business) 

f. How do you claim that the narrator is mad? (The Tell Tale Heart) 

 

3. Answer any one of the following: [1*10=10] 

a. Compare the poor eastern society with the rich western society in terms of Pregnancy, Childbirth, and Childrearing. (A Child is Born) 

b. Summarize the story "Hansel and Gretel" written by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm.  

 

4. Rewrite the following sentences using 'seem'. [5] 

a. Sarita is very friendly. 

b. he isn't very rich. 

c. She is happily married. 

d. Milan watches movie a lot. 

e. The man usually carries a walking stick when he goes out. 

 

5. Change the following sentences using must, can't, may/might. [5] 

a. May be he is coming. 

b. I am sure he was happy. 

c. I am sure she did not pass her exams. 

d. Perhaps they have won the match. 

e. Obviously she will come today. 

 

6. Write a wish for each of the following sentences. [5] 

  a. You are jobless. 

  b. Stuti is angry with you. 

  c. You are arrested. 

  d. He never answers your phone. 

  e. She chews chewing-gum in the class. 

 

7. Write a description of yourself. Talk briefly about your height, weight and build, and describe your face in detail. [5] 

 

8. Join the following pair of sentences into one using appropriate relative clause in each case. [5] 

a. George has been to his country. He is living there. 

b. The cows have destroyed your crops. The cows are gazing under the tree now. 

c. The boy was not good. You beat the boy yesterday.  

d. The castle is entertaining. We spent our vacation there. 

e. My friend works in the Bir hospital. His name is Ganesh. 

 

9. Change the sentences as given in the example into a conversation. [5] 

   Example: 

   A: Her husband was horrified when she came back from hairdressers. 

   B: Why? What happened? or, What had they done? 

   C: Well, they had cut their hair really short, and they'd dried it a kind of green colour. 

  a. The Policeman received a medal for the bravery.  

  b. It was good thing I checked my bill before I paid. 

 

10. Rewrite the following sentences using 'If there's one thing'. [5] 

a. I loathe people who ill talk about others. 

b. I hate people who love money. 

c. People who have long dirty nail disgust me. 

d. People who speak English fluently impress me. 

e. People who talk about themselves annoy me. 

 

11. Develop a paragraph entitled "Use and Misuse of Internet" in about 120 words. [5] 

12. Write a letter to the editor of the Kathmandu Post on "The Popularity of Social Media." [10] 

13. Write an essay on "Climate Change" in about 200 words. [10] 

 

 

 

 

SET-3 

1. Read the following passage and answer the questions below: [15] 

 

The Polynesian word tattoo became part of the English vocabulary after English explorer, James Cook, visited the Pacific island of Tahiti. Mayans in Mexico tattooed themselves with the pictures of their god. Scientists have even discovered tattoos on Egyptian mummies. In 1991, hikers in the Alps found the tattooed mummy of a man who died 5,000 years ago. In Marquesas, tattoos were used to signify a number of things . One was beauty. The more complex designs were considered more beautiful. They were the symbol of courage because tattooing process painful. Finally, tattoos showed wealth because the tattoo artist was well paid. Marquesan men often had their entire bodies tattooed on their hands, lips, shoulders, ankles, and behind their ears. As important was, however, is died out because of pressure from Europeans. In 1842, the islanders were taken by the French, who made tattooing illegal. 

 

Most of the Marquesan designs would have been forgotten by now except for the work of a German anthropologist; Ivan Kruesentern's work has helped make tattoos popular in the United States and has influenced bodyy art in western culture today. Kruesentern spent 20 years taking the photographs of tattoos. His photographs have gained importance since the 1970's, when tattooing came in vogue again. Tattoo artists now may use modern battery-operated tools, but they often use the traditional designs they find in Kryuesentern's work. 

 

Questions: 

a. When was tattoos started in the use among humans? 

b. How is tattoo related with the beauty of expressions of belief? 

c. What is the connection between tattooing and culture? 

d. What is the reason behind the popularity of tattooing in western culture? 

e. Do people get tattoos for same reason? How are their reasons similar and different? 

 

2. Answer any five of the following questions: [5*3=15] 

a. What did the two writers learn about the life and culture of the people of the Karnali region during their journey on foot? (Hurried Trip to Avoid a Bad Star) 

b. Describe the relation between the narrator's uncle, aunt and the narrator himself. (A Story) 

c. Justify the title 'Full fathom Five Thy Father Lies' on the basis of the poem. 

d. How is life meaningful according to the poem 'Travelling Through the Dark'? 

e. Describe the love affair of Alyohin in different situations. (About Love) 

f. Describe the poet's feeling towards the time. (The Lamentation of the Old Pensioner) 

 

3. Answer any one of the following: [1*10=10] 

a. Show the interrelation between overpopulation and deforestation. Describe their causes and remedies too. (Two Long-Term Problems........) 

b. How does the story show the growth of an ordinary boy into an assertive young man? (The Last Voyage of the Ghost Ship) 

 

4. Write a news on the following headlines: [5] 

a. Airport Collision: 20 killed 

b. Actor arrested in night club brawl 

 

5. Change the following remarks using supposed to: [5] 

a. Apparently elephants have very long memories. 

b. People say it's unlucky to walk under a ladder. 

c. They say there is a monster in Loch Ness. 

d. I am told that garlic stops you catching a cold. 

e. They say that Methuselah lived for more than 300 years. 

 

6. Compare the prices of the things below: [5] 

a. Tinned peas: 25p, frozen peas: 48p 

b. Cotton sheets: $14, silk sheets:$150 

c. Olive oil: $2, corn oil:99c 

d. Leather gloves:$8, woollen gloves: $2.75 

e. Colour T.V.: $310, black-and-white T.V.: $60  

 

7. Change the following sentences using look, look like, look as if/look as though as necessary. [5] 

a. This mobile costs a lot. 

b. They are celebrating. 

c. Nepal is like Switzerland. 

d. He is handsome. 

e. He is going to start a fight. 

 

8. Answer the following questions using the words given in the brackets. Begin your answer with (a) If or provided that or As long as (b) Unless. [5] 

a. Will the murderer be caught? (witness?) 

b. Will she get to university? (exam results?) 

c. Will the party be a success? (how many people?) 

d. Will the company survive? (strikes?) 

e. Will they find a cure for cancer? (money for research?) 

 

9. Write a reaction of a film you've recently watched in a paragraph. [5] 

 

10. Write a paragraph describing experience and achievements of a well-known politician of your country. [5] 

 

11. Write a letter to your friend living in UK explaining how Nepal is focusing on peace and security for the tourism promotion. [10] 

 

12. Write a paragraph expressing your regret on something you have done which you shouldn't have. [5] 

 

13. Imagine that you have just visited your countryside after 10 years. Explain your feelings about the changes you found focusing on the climate change. [10]  