Summary

Purgatory is a play written by a famous Irish writer, William Bulter Yeast. The play was first presented in Abby theatre, Dublin just a few months before Yeast's death.  This play is based on the conversation between an old man and a boy who is the old man's illegitimate son. It starts with the man and the boy  with a ruined house and a barren tree in the background. This old man has nothing but suffered his whole life due to the actions of his drunken father as he explains how he has been treated by him after his mother's death. 

The old man reminisces the memory while looking at the ruined house where he once lived. The house which was owned by his mother, the house where great people like magistrates , colonels, member of parliaments, captains and governors lived and died. His mother had a horse at Curragh and his father was a groom at a training stable where they first met. The old man's mother married the groom for which her mother never spoke to her again. She spent everything lavishly on the groom, and abandoned her family. For she never knew the worst side of the groom until she died. She died while giving birth to the old man.  

The old man expresses his agony with the boy. He never got the love he deserved, he was never sent to school and didn't inherit his right share of property from his father. He has been a sufferer for his whole life. One day his father while drunk, burnt down the house with himself in. But the old man confessed his sin on the wedding anniversary of his mother.  While standing in front of the ruined house he confronted his son, how he stabbed his own father with a knife and left him on the fire to die. With some old clothes, the old man ran away from there. 

 Now the old man sees the spirit of his father and mother who often visit the ruined house. Pointing on the window, the old man shows how the spirit of his mother is waiting for his father alone; who comes home drunk from the public house. The boy sees nothing and denies the old man, saying him to be mad. The old man sees it all and wants his mother not to get close to his father as he doesn’t want them to give birth to a murderer. He thinks that his mother never deserved the groom. 

The boy is sixteen and the old man is his father now. Time has come to the same place where it was years before. The boy complains the man and says he is no better than the groom as he has not been given education and his right share of property. The man didn't wanted the boy to spend his money upon drinks and grow up to be as the groom so he didn’t give him anything. The boy and the man then quarrel upon the bag which contains the money. The boy has the thought of killing his father as his father did the same years ago. To his surprise, the old man stabs  him with the same knife which he used to kill his father. 

 The man wants his mother's soul to leave the purgatory, so he killed the boy. Had he grown up, he would have invaded some other women's happiness and made her life worse as the groom made his mother's life. He didn't want the history to be repeated so he finished everything at the very first place. 

The play shows the belief towards supernatural powers, about how the spirits remorse after dead. The spirits have become ghost, loiter around the house and not allowed to enter heaven because of the sins they committed while living. It also shows the consequences on the life of living due to the dead, referred to the old man who is living with the guilt of killing his own father. While gathering the money, the old man realises that he has killed his father and son for no specific purpose so in the end he asks mercy to god and wants the departed souls to rest in peace.  

 

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. What is the theme of Purgatory? Write it in one paragraph. 

Ans.
Purgatory is the state or the place where the souls get purified before entering heaven. As the play deals with the supernatural forces, the man sees the ghost of his mother and father visiting the ruined house where they once lived. This is because they both have guilts, they have both committed sins. His mother abandoned her family and married the groom. She lavishly spent the hard earned money by her ancestors on the groom, for who didn’t deserve her. He wasn't her kind. On the other hand, his father has committed  greater sins. He married a girl for her money and didn't give the love she deserved. After her death, lavishly spent her money on drinks and luxuries. For he deprived his own son of education and his property. Their actions adversely affected the life of the old man. Due to these reasons their soul isn't at peace and has been sent to the purgatory to be purified.  


2. Do you think Yeast believes in life after death?  

Ans.
Yes, Yeast believes in life after death for a certain period of time. Till the time when the dead actually realise all the sins they have committed, while living. Their soul needs to be purified before entering heaven, till they don’t realise what wrong they did, on what way their actions are still affecting the lives of the living they are prohibited to enter heaven. So in this time, the souls loiter around as ghosts and don’t get to rest in peace.  


3. Explain how Purgatory explore the relation of human life to supernatural forces. 

Ans. 
When the soul departs from the body they directly do not attend the state of peace. They go through everything what they have done in their life, again. Being more specific, they go through the sins they have committed, the pain they endured and the consequences caused to the living from their certain actions. They get to see it all and remorse. They aren't set free until they realise how hard they have made the lives of living, associated to them by their decision, actions and passion. They suffer for their sins until they rest in eternal peace.  


4. What is the old man's motive in murdering the boy? 

Ans.
The boy has now grown up, and is of same age when the old man killed his father. Full of rage for keeping him deprived of education and the right share of property. He has the blood, the polluted blood which has committed many sins. So the man didn't want the boy to contaminate any relations further. He wanted to put an end to all the consequences which started from his drunken father. He didn’t want the generation to continue as he didn’t want the history to be repeated. By killing the boy, no one in future would have to suffer. It would be the end of all the consequences. So he finished  
everything at the very  first place by killing the boy.  

 