Proverbs 

1. 
PROVERB -Actions speak louder than words. 

MEANING  -What you do is more important than what you say 

EXAMPLE  -“Don’t just tell us that you’re going to change. Do it! Actions speak louder than words.” 

 
2. 
PROVERB  -A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step 

MEANING  -You must begin something if you hope to finish it; something that takes a   long     time to finish begins with one step 

EXAMPLE  -“If you want to pass in the exam , you need to study from today. A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.” 

  
3. 
PROVERB  -All good things must come to an end 
 
MEANING  -Everything ends; good times don’t last forever 

EXAMPLE  -“I wish this party would go on forever. It’s too bad that all good things must come to an end.”  


 4. 
PROVERB -Easy come, easy go 

MEANING -When you make money quickly, it’s very easy to lose it quickly as well 

EXAMPLE -“I won the lottery , and then I spent all the money on a very expensive meal for me and some friends. Easy come, easy go.” 

  
5. 
PROVERB  -God helps those who help themselves 

MEANING  -Don’t just wait for good things to happen to you. Work hard to make them happen 

EXAMPLE  -“If you want a better score in your test, you can’t just sit down thinking about it. You have to work hard. God helps those who help themselves.” 

  
6. 
PROVERB  -Good things come to those who wait 

MEANING  -If you are patient, good things can happen 

EXAMPLE  -“I know you’re thirsty, but stop being so impatient. She is going to bring a bottle of water. Good things come to those who wait.” 

  
7. 
PROVERB  -Honesty is the best policy 

MEANING  -It’s always better to tell the truth than it is to lie 

EXAMPLE  -“If you want people to believe in you, you need to be honest and truthful. Honesty is the best policy.” 

  
8. 
PROVERB  -Knowledge is power 

MEANING  -The more you know, the more powerful you can be in different areas of your life 

EXAMPLE  -“When we were kids, our teacher taught us calligraphy. That knowledge helped me to win the handwriting contest. Knowledge is power.” 

 
9. 
PROVERB  -Laughter is the best medicine. 

MEANING  -When you’re in a difficult situation, laughing can make it easier to get through that situation 

EXAMPLE  -“I’m sorry to hear about your cat.  Want to hear a joke? Sometimes, laughter is the best medicine.” 

  
10. 
PROVERB -If you want something done right, you have to do it yourself 

MEANING - Don’t depend on someone else to do a good job; do it yourself 

EXAMPLE  -“I asked my friend to wash the clothes, but he ended up keeping them dirty.  I guess it’s true : if you want something done right, you have to do it yourself.


11. 
PROVERB  -Keep your friends close, and your enemies closer 

MEANING  -If someone is your enemy, treat them like a friend so you can be ready if they ever try to betray you 

EXAMPLE  -“We don’t believe in each other, but we have to be nice to each other because we work for the same office. I’m worried about her stealing my position, so I’m going to keep being nice to her. Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer, and all that.” 

  
12. 
PROVERB  -The grass is always greener on the other side 

MEANING  - People always want what they don’t have 

EXAMPLE  -A: “I’m jealous of all the money that she has.” B: “Yeah, but she is  probably jealous of you too in some ways. The grass is always greener on the other side.” 

  
13. 
PROVERB  -The pen is mightier than the sword 

MEANING  -If you’re trying to convince someone of something, words and ideas are stronger than using physical force (common in politics) 

EXAMPLE  -“We must end this war and not let other people suffer.The pen is mightier than the sword.” 

  
14. 
PROVERB  -There is no place like home 

MEANING  -Your home is the most comfortable place in the world 

EXAMPLE  -“What a tiring day! I’m happy to be back in my own bed again. There’s no  place like home.” 

  
15. 
PROVERB  -Time is money 

MEANING  -Don’t waste your time or other people’s time; also, if you can use your time to make money in some way, you should do that. 

EXAMPLE  -“Don't waste your time and complete your work.! Time is money!” 

  
16. 
PROVERB  -Two heads are better than one 

MEANING  -It’s easier to do something as a team than by yourself 

EXAMPLE  -“I’m stuck on this maths problem . Can you help me solve it? Two heads are better than one.” 

  
17. 
PROVERB  -When in Rome, do as the Romans do 

MEANING  -When you are in a new place or situation, try to act like the majority of people   in that place or situation. 

EXAMPLE  -
A: “You’ve been eating a lot of mangoes on this Terai vacation.” 
B: “Hey, when in Rome, do as the Romans do."

  
18. 
PROVERB  -When the going gets tough, the tough get going 

MEANING  - When a situation becomes difficult, strong people don’t give up; they work harder 

EXAMPLE  -“My grandmother survived the Great Depression. You know the phrase, ‘when the going gets tough, the tough get going?’ That was my grandmother.” 

  
19. 
PROVERB  -Where there’s smoke, there’s fire 

MEANING  -If something seems wrong, it probably is; also, there is usually some truth to a rumour 

EXAMPLE  - “ Evana came to school with a scar on her face today. She cried and didn’t want to say anything about it or her parents. I don’t want to judge too much, but where there’s smoke, there’s usually fire.”  

  
20. 
PROVERB  -You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make him drink it 

MEANING  -You can try to help someone by giving good advice, but you can’t force them to accept it or follow it 

EXAMPLE  - “I tried to help my friend find a job by improving herresume, but he didn’t do anything with it. I guess you can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make him drink it.” 

 
21. 
PROVERB  -You can’t always get what you want 

MEANING  - Don’t complain if you don’t get what you want 

EXAMPLE  -
A: I really wanted to go for a vacation , but I didn’t have enough money last year. 
B: It happens. You can’t always get what you want, right? 

  
22. 
PROVERB  -Barking dogs seldom bite. 

MEANING   -People who appear threatening rarely do harm. 

EXAMPLE   -
X: I’m really scared to talk about my problems to my teacher.Her temper is so   over the top.
Y: I don’t think you should worry too much about it. Barking dogs seldom bite.  

  
23. 
PROVERB   -Don’t judge a book by its cover. 

MEANING   -Just like you can’t form an opinion of a book just by looking at its cover, you can’t form an opinion about someone (or something) from their outward appearance. 

EXAMPLE   -She seems a bit rude to me, but, hey, you never know. She may be good. You shouldn’t judge a book by its cover. 

  
24. 
PROVERB   -Ignorance is bliss. 

MEANING   -If you don’t know about something, you don’t need to bother about it. In other words, if you’re unaware of something, it won’t cause you stress. This proverb, however, is often used in negative way – ignorance is not bliss. 

EXAMPLE   - I didn’t know that the my friend was involved in gambling.  Sometimes, ignorance is bliss. 

  
25. 
PROVERB   -It takes two to make a quarrel. 

MEANING    -An argument of quarrel is not one person’s fault. 

EXAMPLE    -X: Why are you always so rude and quarrelsome? Y: I’m not the only person involved. It takes two to make a quarrel. 


IDIOMS AND PHRASES 

1. Stir up a hornets’ nest 

Meaning: Provoke trouble 

Example: It’s not that the bank is not aware of few financial ups and downs, but they don’t call it because it would expose many and stir up a hornet’s nest. 

 
2. Back against the wall 

Meaning: Be in a difficult situation from where escape is difficult 

Example: With police baying for his blood over the murder case he was involved in, he has his back against the wall. 

 
3. Bite off more than you can chew 

Meaning: To try to do something that is too difficult for you 

Example: She has taken more responsibilities so as to impress her boss. I think she has bitten more than she can chew, and she’ll struggle to handle them all. 

 
4. Head over heels 

Meaning: If you’re head over heels, you’re completely in love. 

Example: Brienne is head over heels in love with Philip and wants to marry him. 

 
5. On cloud nine 

Meaning: If you’re on cloud nine, you’re very happy. 

Example: Max was on cloud nine after he received the news of his promotion. 

 
6. The other side of the coin 

Meaning: The other point of view 

Example: Before we blame a person, we should look at the other side of the coin as well.   

 
7. Keep someone at arm’s length 

Meaning: If you keep someone at arm’s length, you avoid becoming friendly with them. 

Example: Rita has always been unnecessarily mean towards me, it's better to keep her at my arm's length. 

 
8. Up in arms 

Meaning: Angry about something 

Example: Lately, Ashwin has been up in arms with his family which is why he lives all by himself.  

 
9. Drive a hard bargain 

Meaning: If you drive a hard bargain, you argue hard to get a favourable deal. 

Example: The salesman drove a hard bargain but my wife wanted the necklace so badly that I had to buy it.  

 
10. Barking up the wrong tree 

Meaning: To ask the wrong person or follow the wrong course 

Example: The administration blamed the sales team for the organization’s failure to bag the mega deal, but they were barking up the wrong tree. 

 
11. Left out in the cold 

Meaning: If you’re left out in the cold, you’re ignored. 

Example: I was left out in the cold in the annual promotions in the company. 

  
12. Bend over backwards 

Meaning: To try please or accommodate someone to an unusual degree 

Example: The teachers bent over backwards to make the visit of the exchange students a memorable one. 

 
13. Strike while the iron is hot 

Meaning: To act quickly when the opportunity comes by 

Example: That’s an amazing job offer you’re getting. You better strike while the iron is hot, or else it’ll be gone.  

  
14. Blow your own trumpet 

Meaning: If you blow your own trumpet, you tell people how good or successful you are (used in negative way). 

Example: That actor is so off-putting. He is always blowing his trumpet mentioning his awards. 

 
15. Once in a blue moon 

Meaning: If something happens once in a blue moon, it happens rarely. 

Example: Raghav visits his grandmother once in a blue moon. 

 
16. Burn your boats/ bridges 

Meaning: To do something that makes it impossible to change your plans and go back to the earlier position or situation. 

Example: They've burnt the boats with my friends by criticizing them publicly. 

 
17. Make no bones about something 

Meaning: To say clearly what you feel or think about something. 

Example: Jen made no bones about getting a hike in her salary. 

 
18. Break fresh/ new ground 

Meaning: If you break new ground, you do something that was not done before. 

Example: Our scientists are breaking new ground in COVID-19 research. 

 
19. In the same breath 

Meaning: When you say two things in the same breath, you say two very different or contradictory things. 

Example: How can John praise his sibling and dominate him at the same time?  

 
20. Take away your breath 

Meaning: If someone or something takes your breath away, it astonishes you. 

Example: The way the athlete fell from such a height took away my breath.  

 
21. Sell like hot cakes 

Meaning: If something sells like hot cakes, it sells very fast. 

Example: More than two thousands perfume sold so far. The new fragrance is selling like hot cakes. 

 
22. Burn the candle at both ends 

Meaning: If you burn the candle at both ends, you work excessively hard. 

Example: Mike is burning the candles at both ends, he's been working as a teacher as well as a consultant in an organization. 

 
23. Separate the wheat from the chaff 

Meaning: If you separate wheat from the chaff, you separate valuable from worthless. 

Example: The new testing procedure to evaluate the teaching staff will separate the wheat from the chaff. 

 
24. Change tune 

Meaning: If you change your tune, you change the way you behave with others from good to bad. 

Example: After the judge gave his verdict, the guilty person changed his tune and asked for forgiveness.  

 
25. Run around in circles 

Meaning: To be active without achieving any worthwhile result 

Example: She ran around in circles trying to bring him on board for the new cause. 

 
Metaphors 

Simply, metaphor is a figure of speech containing an implied comparison.   

1."I'm drowning in a sea of grief." 
Here the grief is so intense and huge  that the person compares his grief with the depth of the sea. 

2."She was fishing for compliments." 
The woman isn't literally casting a lure to hook and cast a hook but this metaphor compared with her desire. 

3."Success is a sense of achievement; it is not an illegitimate child." 
This means that everyone wants to take credit for success, but no one wants to take responsibility for their failings. 

4."He broke my heart." 
It doesn't literally mean that someone broke your heart, it's used when you feel extremely sad by someone's action.  

5."You light up my life." 
We are humans, we don't possess physical light to give them off. It's used when someone brings joy in your life. 

6."It's raining men." 
No, men don't literally pour from the sky. This simply indicates that a lucky lady has a lot of male suitors. 

7."Time is a thief." 
Fortunately, time doesn't put on a ski mask and lurk around dark corners. This metaphor says that time passes quickly. 

8."He is the apple of my eye." 
It means the person of whom one is extremely fond, favourite, loving. 

9."She has such a bubbly personality." 
This metaphor is used to signify  someone who is cheerful. 

10."I'm feeling blue." 
This metaphor simply means that someone is sad. 

11."I think he's about to fade off to sleep." 
Fortunately, none of us fade into thin air when we fall asleep. This expression simply means that someone has drifted into a state of slumber. 

12."He really flared up my temper." 
This metaphor means that you are deeply angry.  

13."He reeks of infidelity." 
When this is said about a cheating partner, it doesn't mean there's an actual odour. This metaphor is saying it's obvious the person is a liar and a cheat. 

14."She's going through a rollercoaster of emotions." 
When you have different moods and emotions, this metaphor can be used.  
 
15."I feel the stench of failure coming on." 
This metaphor is used, when it means one of life's disappointments is on the way. 

16."This is the icing on the cake." 
This means that something happening has happened on the day. 

17."Hope is on the horizon." 
This metaphor indicates good things are in one's future. 

18."Life contains nothing but clear skies up ahead." 
This metaphor refers to a life devoid of disaster and heartache. 

19."His words cut deeper than a knife." 

This metaphor is used when someone has said something hurtful to another. 

20."The moonlight sparkled brighter than a gypsy." 
The moonlight lit up the night with its sparkle is what the metaphor here indicates. 

 
Paradox 

1.Save money by spending it. 

2.If I know one thing, it's that I know nothing. 

3.This is the beginning of the end. 

4.Deep down, you're really shallow. 

5.I'm a compulsive liar. 

6."Men work together whether they work together or apart."  

7."What a pity that youth must be wasted on the young." -  

8."I can resist anything but temptation."  

9.Here are the rules: Ignore all rules. 

10.The second sentence is false. The first sentence is true. 

11.I only message those who do not message. 


SIMILES 

as bright as the sunshine 

Example: The glow of the lamp was as bright as the sunshine. 

as snug as a bug 

Example: At night, when it rained, she climbed into bed and felt as snug as a bug in a rug. 

as busy as a bee 

Example: At exam time, my brother was as busy as a bee. 

as blind as a bat 

Example: The jaywalker  on the road looked as blind as a bat. 

as light as a feather 

Example: When the interview finished, the candidate felt as light as a feather. 

as deep as an ocean 

Example:  The friendship between me and my friends is as deep as an ocean. 

as funny as a barrel of monkeys 

Example: my cousins are  as funny as a barrel of monkeys. 

as cool as cucumber 

Example: Zaroon's neighbour was trying to infuriate him, but he remained as cool as cucumber. 

as quietly as mice 

Example: We listened to his spellbinding speech as quietly as mice. 

as strong as an ox 

Example: The young boxer looked as strong as an ox. 

as fast as lightning 

Example: The criminals moved as fast as lightning after getting permission from the jailer for an early release. 

as tricky as a labyrinth 

Example: The science paper was as tricky as a labyrinth. 

as happy as dogs with two tails 

Example: The girls in the playing park are feeling as happy as dogs with two tails. 

as tough as an old boot 

Example: Alison’s grandmother is as tough as an old boot. 

as wise as an owl 

Example: My grandpa is seventy-five years old and is as wise as an owl. 

as sly as a fox 

Example: Sales men are as sly as a fox and will try to butter you until you are ready to purchase an  item.  

as noisy as a cricket 

Example: My God! Your son  is as noisy as a cricket. 

like a brush fire 

Example: My anger arose like a brush fire when I heard his rubbish talks. 

as majestic as a grand mountain 

Example: The king's statue stood  there as majestic as a grand mountain. 

like a flower 

Example: Our relationship bloomed like a flower. 

like a spider 

Example: Christian crept up behind Carla, like a spider. 

like a thousand fireflies 

example: The lighted candles were like a thousand fireflies, glowing in the dark. 

as glassy as a still lake 

Example: Anibal's  eyes were full of unshed tears as glassy as a still lake. 

as fierce as a wasp 

Example:  Agata was as fierce as a wasp from a disturbed nest. 

as clean as a whistle 

Example: The cabin is as clean as a whistle. 

