1. JOB APPLICATION 

Write a letter applying for the post of an accountant at Global IME Bank Ltd., Old Baneshwor, Kathmandu.  
 
Bharatpur-10, 
Lanku, 
Chitwan 

1st September 2020 

The Human Resource Manager,  
Global IME Bank Ltd. ,
Old Baneshwor, Kathmandu. 


Dear Madam/Sir,  

I am writing to apply for the post of an accountant advertised by your Head Office in the daily, 'The Himalayan Times' dated 20 August 2020. Please find a copy of my curriculum vitae enclosed herewith.  

I have passed Bachelor's in Business Administration from Kathmandu University. Ever since I had this degree, I have been working at supreme Finance Limited as a junior accountant. So far, I have found my work interesting and enjoyable. I have taken several trainings on accounting and record-keeping. Moreover, I choose the major marketing and accountancy in my last semester. Likewise, I did internship at Nabil bank Limited for three months in 2018. Thus, I believe that my work experiences are relevant to the post I am applying for. You will find me a competitive candidate with a self-starter. 

I look forward to hearing from you. If you grant me an opportunity, I will leave no stones unturned to bring some desirable changes in the execution  of the task assigned to me.  

Thanking in anticipation.  

 
Yours faithfully, 

…..................... 

Rajesh Hamal 

 

2. DEVELOPING SENTENCE INTO A PARAGRAPH. 

Develop the following sentence into a paragraph.  
I was very impressed by that restaurant........ 

Answer: 
I was very impressed by that restaurant. It was located in a peaceful part of the valley. There were many trees around the restaurant that nestled it. I liked the way they greeted us with a welcome drink. The waiters were very friendly. They kept every nook and corner of the dining hall spotlessly clean. I was amazed to see the interiors of the restaurant. Moreover, the food was delicious and hygienic. The menu contained the cuisines ranging from Indian to Italian. I equally enjoyed the way they played the soft music in the background. But the thing, I liked the most about it was the way they gave us discounts.     

 

 
3. BOOK/FILM REVIEW  

 

                                    Titanic    

 
Director:  James Cameron 
Producer:  James Cameron and Jon Landau 
Starring   :   Leonardo DiCaprio , Kate Winslet ,Billy Zane ,Kathy Bates 
Genre:  Epic romantic disaster movie 
Language: English 
Release date: December 19 1997 

The movie tells the dramatic story of the Titanic with Leonardo Di Caprio and Kate Winslet as the main actors.  

In the year 1912 a young poor guy, Jack (Leonardo), a boy having a big dream travels by the gorgeous ship Titanic from London to New York. On board he meets a gorgeous, wealthy girl, Rose (Kate Winslet).  As soon as he saw her, he falls in love with her. The titanic was supposed to be “unsinkable”, but on its departure that was not what it did. After a few days the ship hits an enormous iceberg and the tragedy begins to unfold. The Titanic starts sinking. 

The movie is very close to the real tragedy. It shows a beautiful love story with an extremely sad ending. The acting is first-rate. Leonardo Di Caprio`s and Kate Winslet`s performance is so brilliant that it is sure for a viewer to cry during the whole movie. This movie brings a tear to your eyes. If you want to cry and melt down to a glamorous love story, I strongly recommend that you watch this movie. Titanic is well worth seeing. 

 


4. Letter to the editor 

Your address 
Date 

 
The Editor, 
Name of the Newspaper, 
Address of the publication 

 

              Subject: Use of loud speaker   

 

Dear Sir,  

Through the widely circulated columns of your esteemed newspaper (Through the esteemed column of your widely circulated newspaper), I would like to draw the attention of concerned authorities to the insensitive use of loud speaker being a nuisance. The most annoying part is that the loudspeakers have become an integral part of almost all celebrations. People seem to believe that even private occasions are incomplete without the use of loud speaker. 

Noise pollution has already become a problem for people living in cities to deal with. The excessive use of loudspeakers for unrequired reasons has made things even worse. On some occasions, loud speakers are absolutely necessary but improper use of loud speakers has caused lot of problems. 

The most affected by the improper use of these loud speakers are elderly people and children. Elderly people are unable to sleep properly and children are not able to completely focus on their studies. This problem must be addressed by concerned authorities. 

 
Sincerely, 
Your name   

 

 