Summary 

Written by Edgar Allan Poe –the famous American short story writer, the story narrates about the murder. Poe usually writes mystery based short stories. The Tell- tale heart unfolds every minute detail and event that has occurred in the story on the day of murder. The tale is about confessing the guilt embedded in the heart. Moreover, it says truth cannot be hidden, the fear supressed in the heart lets it out. The old man( owner) and the narrator(servant) are the major characters while three police men play the side roles. 

The narrator wants the reader to believe that he isn't mad. He just possesses 'over acuteness of sense'. This  is the only motive behind the murder. Neither did he hated the man nor was he ever insulted by him. But he couldn’t resist the man's eye. The eye of vulture, blue and pale eye as described by the narrator.  His blood runs cold whenever he sees it. So never to see those eyes again, he came up with the idea of murdering the man. He waited for seven long days because whenever he went to the man's room, he found the man's eyes closed and couldn’t execute his plan but on the eighth day while he was inside the man's room, recalling his own senses, he chuckled. Listening  to this, the man woke up but couldn’t see him as the room was filled with darkness and the shutters were closed. The man didn’t see him steadily closing the door. When he was about to open the lantern the old man sensed someone in the room and he sprang on his bed, wide awake. The man has fear, but also consoles himself by assuming that it to be the noise of the wind or the mouse but it all went down in vain. After waiting for long, the narrator then decides to open the lantern. As soon as he does so, the ray of light falls on the vulture eyes which he despises. He then hears the man's heart beat faster and louder every time. This makes him more anxious. He assumes that the neighbour would hear the heart beat and without wasting further time he pounces on the old man, drag him on the floor and put the heavy bed over him. He killed the man yet could hear his heart beat. For his conformation he examined the corpse again. Next on the row, was to hide it. He brutally cut it off into different parts ; the head , the arms and the legs and hid it inside the floor then covers it with a plank.  

At four in the morning, there came three policemen as they received a complaint from a neighbour who heard some noise the following night. The narrator had nothing to fear about as he played safe, welcomed his visitors and showed around the house. When they went upstairs, he brought them chairs to rest and chatted with them. He placed his chair  just above the corpse. He then started hearing the heartbeat. With every second it grew louder and faster. He assumed that the policemen heard it as they were smiling. To him it seemed like mocking him. His over acute sense of hearing made it unbearable for him to hide his guilt. He couldn’t resist the fear and confessed that he killed the man. Showed them the corpse saying, "Here , here – It is the beating heart.  

Therefore, the heart cannot supress the guilt for a long period of time. It comes out, whether you want it or not. The heart tells every tale. Referred  to narrator, he confronted his crime as he couldn’t endure the guilt of the murder.  


Understanding and interpretation  

1. Justify the title "The Tell- Tale heart". 
 
Ans. 
 For how long can you hold your guilt? For how long can it be hidden? Even the smallest clue found by others will make you so nervous that you tend to confess everything. The heart cannot take more load, you cannot endure the guilt. No matter what, the truth is bound to come out whether you like it or not. Same happened in the story. The narrator confessed his guilt and showed the policemen where he placed the corpse after brutally murdering the old man. Every passing time made it difficult for him to hold on. What was in the heart was spitted out.  

Hence, the heart tells every tale as it cannot hold the guilt for the longer period of time. 


2. In the beginning the narrator says that his sense of hearing was the most acute. How does this acute sense of hearing later become unbearable and lead him to confess his guilt.  

Ans.  
 As mentioned, the narrator constantly manipulated the reader and tried to convince them that he isn't mad but possesses over acuteness of  sense. He said the disease had sharpened his senses not destroyed it. Among which his sense of hearing was more acute. This sense at end becomes unbearable, and he spits the truth. He could have possibly heard his own heartbeat with every passing time. The fear of getting caught and  the guilt of murder had probably triggered his adrenalin and increased his heart rate. Which he assumed to be the heartbeat of the dead man. He  assumed that the police were mocking him knowing that he was the murderer. 

This became unbearable and confessed his guilt.  And showed them the corpse.   

 
3. Draw the character sketch of the narrator.  

Ans.  
The narrator has been working in a house and was in very good terms with the old man for whom he worked. Neither was he insulted nor had they ever quarrelled. But one thing always bothered him, the old man's eye. He refers to it as vulture eye which was irresistible. This is because he possessed over acuteness of senses among which he had a very acute sense of hearing. His disease has sharpened his senses not dulled or destroyed it. He was a murderer as he murdered the old man very brutally, and cut him into pieces and covered him with a plank. This clearly shows that he had mental disorder. At the end, due to this over acuteness of hearing, he confessed his crime. His guilt was unbearable but wasn't mentally stable.  

 

Discussion  

1. Would you call the narrator mad? Give reasons for your answer.  

Ans.  
Definitely. From the very beginning, he has tried to manipulate his readers. Had he not been one, he wouldn't have justified every now and then of not being mad. The over acuteness of sense itself is a mental disorder. In the story he says, " I heard all things in heaven and in earth. I heard many things in hell." which is simply a delusion. We call it psychotic disorder in terms of medicine, which again is a serious type of mental illness. His motive of killing the old man made it more obvious. He himself said he was in good terms with the old man, but his vulture like pale and blue eyes bothered him. It was irresistible. His body ran cold whenever he saw those eyes. Not to see it anymore he murdered the man. Would any normal people dare to do so? Then insanely killed him without purpose, chopped him brutally and differentiated his body into the head, the arms and the leg. I ask again, would any normal people have the guts to do that?  Also in the beginning of the story he mentioned that his 'disease' has sharpened his senses not dulled or destroyed it. At the end, his acute sense of hearing made it unbearable for him to hide the truth. Above all, he thought that the old man's heart started beating when he himself confirmed his death. Soon after that, he confronted his crime. All these evidences makes me believe that this man is a pure psycho, MAD.  

 