Summary  

In this poem Stafford presents a conflict between two realities of life, feelings and emotions. On one hand are efficiency and responsibilities that we admire when we face danger or loss. On the other hand, there are warmer than the efficiency an deeper than the good judgement. 

While driving along a narrow, winding road (Wilson River road) he encounters a dead deer obstructing his path. Getting down the car when he tries to pull it outside, it is a pregnant doe however dead. She had been stiffened and cold, 

but her big belly, was still warm. He realised that there was a ‘fawn’ * fawn inside, which was waiting to be born. But since its mother had already died, it would never be born. 

This poem prevents the conflict between head and heart, emotion and responsibility, nature and technology , modern life vs * and ( nai ramro hola)  wilderness. 

 
Understanding and Interpretation 

1. Explain the title of the poem who are all those travelling through the dark? 

Ans. 
 The poet is not driving in the high way, rather the road is narrow following the riverside surrounded by the forest. Only the people who love nature could be driving in the darkness of night.  However, if we plunge a little dipper, we can presume that the drivers are spiritually darkened. Though their eyes are open, they are banded by their status and privilege and there is no mistake that it goes on all over the world whether the country is rich or poor.  

2. Show how the action develops stanza by stanza. 

Ans. 
The speaker locates a deer on a way while driving. Getting down the car when he tries to pull it outside, it is a fragmented doe however dead. The fawn inside is hoping to come out as the belly of the doe is still warm. The action of the poet is stopped for a time being because there is a tug of war between responsibility and emotion. Finally he decides to push her over the edge down into the  river. 

 
3. At what point does the physical action cease, to be replaced by another kind? 

Ans. 
When the poet feels the warmth of the large belly, his action stops because he becomes emotional about the unborn fawns. 

4. How do the last two lines complete both types of action? 

Ans. 
The last two line deals with the completion of both mental and physical action. The beginning stanza talks about the thought of the writer, his emotion on the living creature and nature. While in the last stanza he pushed the doe over the edge into the river and complete both types of action. 


5. What is the meaning of the last two lines in the poem? Does poem moralize?  

Ans: 
 The last two lines in the poem means there is a problem in the environment and problem of life. The life problem can’t be corrected because the doe is already killed which is bitter reality. The dead body can pollute the environment and the speaker has morality to last duality of life and to keep environment clean, so he completes his duty. 

 