Summary 

In 1992, the scientist and Noble Prize winner signed the document jointly warning the people all over the world. The world has been overpopulated and the environment has been polluted whether the land , air or water. They discuss about two Longterm problem, overpopulation and deforestation. 

As a result, people are going to suffer from incurable disease because of the environmental degradation. 

Population grows yet the size of the earth remains the same. More people means more food and more shelter. This has brought drastic environmental change. It also leads to the problem of deforestation.  

In Nepal or Asian countries, forest is cleared for farmland and shelter however in the west they clear the forest to meet the demand of hamburger. 

However, there is a solution to these problems, in the essay, Moti Nissani encourages us to protect trees for the future generation. He has recommended a few steps from where we can prevent chopping down of the trees and restore the healthy atmosphere. Changing the lifestyle is a must to improve the environment. Similarly in the west eating hamburgers can  be controlled by some other kind of solid food. In any case awareness of the people is a must. 

In the end he says that we should have willingness and passion to reduce population and plant trees which will help us to live healthier and our future will also be bright and safe. 

 

Understanding and Interpretation

 
1. Are the living Noble Prize winners optimistic about the future of humanity? Why or why not? 

 Ans.
 The noble prize winners are very optimist about the future of human kind. The people have ill-treated the nature and have caused a great destruction mercilessly. The environment has been polluted whether it is water, air or land. However, they tell us that if we stop all our wrong actions immediately, we can once again change the world into a healthier place even though it is time consuming but not impossible. 

 
2. What leads Nissani to the belief that the world is facing an overpopulation crises? 

 Ans. 
The modern medicine help people live longer. The death rate of children have also gone down. People leave longer life because of variety of food also. This has caused imbalance between death and birth rate because birth rate is higher than death rate as a result overpopulation forces for deforestation. Without trees, people are going to face landslide, tsunami, acid rain etc. It would have changed consequences into health of people. 

 
3. What's wrong, in his view, with a treeless Nepal? 

Ans.
 The populational shift that is leading people to move from rural areas to urban areas is also contributing to deforestation. Showing devastating effecting of deforestation in Nepal, the writer makes us conscious about the importance of preservation of the forest. By destroying the forests, human activities are putting entire ecosystems in danger, creating natural imbalances, and putting Life at threat. After the deforestation, every heavy rainfall is likely to cause a devastating flood in plains of Nepal, India and Bangladesh. The destruction of the forest, in turn, contributes to the greenhouse effect. Therefore, besides causing serious flood in Nepal, in the long run, will also damage the quality of life and the ability of Biosphere to sustain life. 

