Summary 

'Women's business' was written by Ilene Kantrov.  The writer is famous for writing about women's matter. The essay mainly focuses on a lady Lydia Pinkham and other six ladies who fought with many difficulties and came in business. However, it was always in grip of male.  

Lydia Pinkham came in business when her husband's business collapsed.  She made home- made medicines using herbs which attracted women. She was also involved in social service. She encouraged women to be self-dependant. She taught women about exercise and importance of hygienic food. Even after all these she received many comments too. Margaret Rudkin was the other woman who started baking additive free bread and later established her business. Jennie Grossinger started her hotel business and was called as Jewish grandma. Elizabeth Arden was a beautician who started beauty parlour and introduced beauty products. Helena Rubinstein was also a beautician and peer of Arden. Gertrude Muller introduced booklets about children. Also, Annie Turnbo Mallone introduced schools and colleges for women.  

In these many ways, these women promoted women's business. However, these are many statements which a militant feminist would not agree. The essay in various ways says that women are somehow dependant to men. The beauticians married to Europeans to expand their business. Militant feminist would not support it as they think both male and female should be interdependent.  The essay also says that women and men are not involved in business in the same way or same motive. Women are more service oriented.  They worked hard earned a lot and also shared their profit.  Some of them supported actual idea of feminism but some of them did not do it. In this way women, using their skills, promoted their business. 

  

Understanding and Interpretation 

1. Which Lydia Pinkham's business did the later women capitalists adopt for their own enterprises? In what ways did they depart from Pinkham's model? 

Ans. 
Lydia encouraged women to be self-dependant. With her kind face, she told woman to eat hygienic food and exercise. Following her path, Jennie Grossinger started her own hotel business, serving many customers healthy food. Her kind heart and beautiful face encouraged Elizabeth and Helena to start beauty parlour to take care of the face and body. Similarly, Gertrude introduced booklets for women and children. Annie started school for woman. They all were inspired by Lydia; however all of them exactly not follow her path. Lydia was more service oriented while many of the other ladies were attracted more towards profit.  Others were give false ideas about their products with their customers while Lydia was quite honest. That is why, their ideologies were different. 

  

2. How did the businesswomen the writer introduces in her essay differ from their male counterparts? In what was did they resemble male entrepreneurs of their day? 

Ans. 
The writer has mentioned many ways in which the businesswomen are different from their male counterparts. The businesswomen had a motive for the growth of themselves using their skills but the male counterparts did not have such motive. The women used local product like herbs and alcohols but men did not do it . Businesswomen also encouraged other women about their health and self-dependence but this did not happen among males. Women chose to work in the fields where they were comfortable. The women were also similar to male counterparts as they were also profit oriented. They were also promoting false advertisement for their own benefits. Some of them were also exactly not supporting feminism. 

  

3. How would you expect a militant feminist to react on this essay? Are any of the writer's statements debatable? 

Ans. 
A militant feminist may support this essay in many ways but may not have all positive thoughts. Women promoting business and improving their skills is a positive side. However women somehow being dependant to men may be debatable. A militant feminist would focus on both the service oriented and profit oriented business.  However women encouraging each other telling about hygiene, good food, exercise and rest would be supported by all the females. She would like women with kind faces and glamorous looks.  She would also ask for real advertisement and ask women to use more techniques and technologies in her work. 

  

Style and Rhetoric  

1. What is the thesis (theme) of the essay? 

Ans. 
The main theme of this essay is to give attention to the business women who used their skills and talents to start a business and be self-dependant.  Women should be successful in the business field so that they earn respect from the society. The business women should be both profit and service oriented so that they can bring a real difference in the society.  They should encourage other women to do good independent and successful.   

  